THE INFANT'S DELIGHT

BLIND MAN'S BUFF.

When the win-ter winds are blow-ing,
  And we ga-ther glad and gay,
Where the fire its light is throw-ing,
  For a mer-ry game at play,
There is none that to my know-ing,--
  And I've play-ed at games enough,--
Makes us laugh, and sets us glow-ing
  Like a game at Blind-man's Buff.

THE DEAD ROBIN.

All through the win-ter, long and cold,
  Dear Minnie ev-ery morn-ing fed
The little spar-rows, pert and bold,
  And ro-bins, with their breasts so red.

She lov-ed to see the lit-tle birds
  Come flut-ter-ing to the win-dow pane,
In answer to the gen-tle words
  With which she scat-ter-ed crumbs and grain.

One ro-bin, bol-der than the rest,
  Would perch up-on her fin-ger fair,
And this of all she lov-ed the best,
  And daily fed with ten-der-est care.

But one sad morn, when Minnie came,
  Her pre-ci-ous lit-tle pet she found,
Not hop-ping, when she call-ed his name,
  But ly-ing dead up-on the ground.

ALL THINGS OBEY GOD.

"He saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth."

God's works are very great, but still
  His hands do not ap-pear:
Though hea-ven and earth o-bey His will,
  His voice we can-not hear.

And yet we know that it is He
  Who moves and governs all,
Who stills the rag-ing of the sea,
  And makes the showers to fall.

Alike in mer-cy He be-stows
  The sun-shine and the rain;
That which is best for us He knows,
  And we must not com-plain,

Whe-ther He makes His winds to blow,
  And gives His tem-pests birth,
Or sends His frost, or bids the snow--
  "Be thou up-on the earth."

SNOW-BALL-ING.

See these mer-ry ones at play,
On this snowy New Year's Day:
How they run, and jump, and throw
Hand-fuls of the soft, white snow.
You should hear them laugh and shout
As they fling the snow about!
'Tis by Frank and Gus alone
That the balls are chief-ly thrown,
While their cou-sins make and bring
Other balls for them to fling.
Ka-tie is pre-par-ing thus,
Quite a store of balls for Gus;
But her mer-ry sis-ter May
From her task has run a-way,
All that heavy lump of snow,
At her cou-sin Gus to throw.
E-dith is not very bold,
And at first she fear-ed the cold;
Now at last you see her run
Down the steps to join the fun.

THE SICK DOLL.

Oh! is there any cause to fear
  That dol-ly will be very ill?
To cure my lit-tle dar-ling here,
  Pray, doc-tor, use your ut-most skill.

And dol-ly, if you would get well,
  Hold out your arm, that Dr. Gray
May feel your tiny pulse, and tell
  What best will take the pain a-way.

And do not say: "I will not touch
  That nas-ty phy-sic, nor the pill."
If lit-tle dolls will eat too much,
  They must not won-der if they're ill.

If your mam-ma ate too much cake,
  She would be very poor-ly too,
And nas-ty phy-sic have to take;
  And, lit-tle dol-ly, so must you.

NEL-LY'S PET LAMB.

This lit-tle Lamb was brought to Nell
  The day its old ewe mo-ther died,
And, now it knows and loves her well,
  It will not go from Nel-ly's side.
A-long the hall, and up the stair,
  You hear its lit-tle pat-ter-ing toes:
Her Pet will fol-low every-where
  A-bout the house, where Nel-ly goes.

ROSE'S VA-LEN-TINE.

ROSE.

The post-man has been, dear mam-ma,
  And has brought me a let-ter so fine;
And Su-san has one, but it is not, by far,
  So pret-ty a let-ter as mine.
And, pray, will you read it to me,
  Mam-ma, if I give you a kiss?
I wish very much to know who it can be
  That has sent me a let-ter like this.

MAM-MA.

To the lot of our dear lit-tle Rose
  We trust every bless-ing may fall;
And this is the prayer and the fond hope of those
  Who love her most dear-ly of all.

So now, lit-tle Rose, can you guess
  Who sent you this let-ter by post?

ROSE.

Oh, yes, dear mam-ma, I can tell you; oh, yes!
  For you, and pa-pa, love me most.

"YOUR HEA-VEN-LY FA-THER FEED-ETH THEM."

God loves His lit-tle birds; for all
  His ten-der care He shows;
A sin-gle spar-row can-not fall
  But its Cre-a-tor knows.

They do not sow, nor reap the corn,
  Gar-ner nor barn have they;
God gives them break-fast every morn,
  And feeds them through the day.

And this we know; for in His Word,
  Where all His ways we read,
We find that eve-ry lit-tle bird
  He cares for, and will feed.

God loves each lit-tle bird; but still
  More ten-der is His care
For chil-dren who o-bey His will,
  Than for the fowls of air.

PLOUGH-ING.

The lit-tle birds by God are fed
But man must earn his dai-ly bread,
  And work that he may eat;
Striv-ing his best, as John does now,
The broad ten-acre field to plough,
  Where-in to sow the wheat.

Old John, the plough-man, ne'er re-pines,
Whe-ther it blows, or rains, or shines,
  But hap-py still does seem;
And Dick, who leads the fore-most horse,
Goes whist-ling as he walks across
  The field be-side the team.

Let us per-form as glad-ly, too,
The work our Mas-ter bids us do,
  And then we need not fear;
But when from earth-ly toil we rest,
We all shall meet a-mong the blest
  Who served Him tru-ly here.

"HOW IS THE WEA-THER?"

  Cold win-ter has come,
  And the cru-el winds blow--
The trees are all leaf-less and brown;
  These two pret-ty rob-ins,
  Oh, where shall they go
To shel-ter their lit-tle brown heads from the snow?
  Just look at the flakes com-ing down.

But see, they have found a snug shel-ter at last,
And hark, how they talk, while the storm whis-tles past:

  Says Pol-ly to Dick-y,
  "You're near-est the door,
And you are the gen-tle-man, too:
  Just peep out and see
  When the storm will be o'er;
Be-cause, if the wea-ther's as bad as be-fore,
I think we will stay, do not you?"

NAUGH-TY NEL-LY AND HER NEW PA-RA-SOL.

"No, Nel-ly! not to-day, my child!
  I can-not let you take it;
This cold March wind, so strong and wild,
  Your pa-ra-sol, 'twould break it!"

So said Mam-ma; but Nel-ly thought,
  "I will take my new pre-sent:
Tis mine; to please me it was bought;
  The wea-ther's bright and plea-sant."

So naugh-ty Nel-ly sli-ly took
  What kind Mam-ma had bought her,
And out she went--and, only look!
  The wild March wind has caught her!

The silk tore up, the ribs broke out,
  In spite of Nel-ly's sway-ing;
And peo-ple laugh-ed at her, no doubt--
  That comes of dis-o-bey-ing.

"THE FLOW-ERS AP-PEAR ON THE EARTH."

(SONG OF SOLOMON, ii. 12.)

Now the win-ter cold is past,
  And blithe March winds are blow-ing,
In shel-ter-ed nooks we find at last
  Bright flow-ers of spring are grow-ing.

Along the hedge-row's mossy bank,
  Where ivy green is creep-ing,
We see through weeds and net-tles rank
  The dark-blue vi-o-let peep-ing.

And in the sun-ny gar-den beds
  Gay a-co-nites are show-ing,
And snow-drops bend their grace-ful heads,
  And cro-cus-es are glow-ing.

God makes the buds and leaves un-fold,
  All flow-ers are of His giv-ing;
He guards them through the win-ter's cold,
  He cares for all things liv-ing.

JUMP! PUS-SY!

Pus-sy, jump! for all the day
You have time e-nough to play;
Though at night, in barn and house,
You must watch for rat or mouse.

Pus-sy, jump! and if you do,
We will pour some milk for you;
Pus-sy, you shall be ca-ressed,
If you try and jump your best.

BLOW-ING BUB-BLES.

  Har-ry and Tom, the o-ther day,
  Went out in-to the yard to play;
Their great de-light, in wea-ther bright,
  Is blow-ing bub-bles with pipes of clay.

  Tom took a ba-sin deep and wide,
  And Har-ry brought his mug be-side;
They fil-led them quite with soap-suds white,
  And each to blow the big-gest tried.

  Poor Tom, he blew with might and main,
  And so, of course, he blew in vain;
For all his trou-ble he made no bub-ble,
  But Tom was brave and tried a-gain.

  Till Har-ry said, "Dear Tom, you see,
  You blow too hard; now--look at me.
There! that will rise to-ward the skies,
  And float a-bove the li-lac tree."

A-PRIL SHOW-ERS.

"Thou makest the earth soft with show-ers: Thou bless-est the spring-ing
there-of."--PSALM lxv. 10.

When A-pril skies be-gin to frown,
And the cold rain comes pelt-ing down,
We must not grum-ble nor com-plain,
Nor i-dly say, we hate the rain.

God sends the rain; the dust-y ground
It soft-ens in the fields a-round;
The mois-ture ev-e-ry plant re-ceives,
And springs a-fresh in flow-ers and leaves.

Should God for-bid the show-ers to fall,
Nor send us any rain at all,
The ground would all grow hard and dry,
And ev-e-ry liv-ing plant would die.

All things would starve and per-ish then--
No food for birds, nor beasts, nor men;
Then do not mur-mur, nor com-plain,
God, in His good-ness, sends the rain.

"SNAP, BE GOOD!"

"Dear lit-tle Snap, you fun-ny pup,
  I love to see you beg,
So cle-ver-ly do you sit up
  And bend each slen-der leg,
    Drop-ping the paw;
And raise your ears a-bove your head,
  Look-ing so very wise;
You seem to know I have some bread;
  And then, such bright green eyes
    I never saw.

"Your shag-gy coat is long and rough,
  Your tail is rough-er still;
Now, Snap, I think you've had e-nough,
  And more would make you ill--
    In-deed it would.
But sis-ter Lot-ty has some cake,
  And so if you will sit
Quite still and good, till I say 'Take!'
  Then you shall have a bit;
    So, Snap, be good!"

THE STRAY KIT-TEN.

"Come, Kit-ty, come; you need not fear,
  Nor make that plain-tive mew;
Don't be a-fraid, but ven-ture near,
And lap the milk we bring you here,
  For none will in-jure you.

"And, Kit-ty, since you've lost your way,
  You need no fur-ther roam;
But stop, and dine with us to-day,
And then, if you would wish to stay,
  Poor Kit-ty, here's your home.

"And we will feed you fine and fat,
  On fresh new milk and nice;
And, when you grow to be a cat,
You can re-quite us well for that,
  By catch-ing all the mice."

THE MAY-POLE.

  Round the May-pole, on the grass,
  Mer-ry lit-tle foot-steps pass;
  In the mid-dle Bes-sie stands,
  With the May-pole in her hands;
  While her play-mates dance and sing
  Round her in an end-less ring.
  Soon, in-deed, a feast they'll make,
  Cow-slip tea, with nice plum-cake--
And so our leave of them we'll take.

THE FIRST OF MAY.

The haw-thorn blos-som, snow-y white,
  Hangs thick upon the hedge to-day;
With many flow-ers the fields are bright
  Upon this mer-ry First of May.

So let us ga-ther flow-er-ets fair,
  And blos-soms from the haw-thorn spray,
To deck our May-pole stand-ing there,
  Upon this mer-ry First of May.

And then, like fai-ries, in a ring,
  A-round it we will dance or play,
And all our glad-dest songs will sing
  Upon this mer-ry First of May.

And dear-est Maud shall there be seen
  With crown of haw-thorn blos-soms gay,
And she shall be our lit-tle queen,
  Upon this mer-ry First of May.

UNI-VER-SAL PRAISE.

See how na-ture now re-joices
  In this sun-ny month of May;
Still to God from all its voices
  Giv-ing prais-es day by day.
In the glad green wood-land al-leys
  Ev-e-ry bird its an-them trills!
While flocks feed-ing in the val-leys,
  Herds up-on a thou-sand hills,
Join with ev-ery crea-ture liv-ing,
  Here on land, in air, or sea,
In one great world-wide thanks-giv-ing,
  Yield-ing praise, O God, to Thee!
All a-round us swells the cho-rus
  From this good-ly world of ours,
And earth's al-tar stands be-fore us
  Sweet with in-cense from her flow-ers.
So, with Na-ture still con-fess-ing
  His great good-ness, let us pay
Grate-ful hom-age for each bless-ing
  Of this sun-ny month of May.

THE DAN-DE-LION CLOCK.

The dan-de-lion blos-soms gay
From the fields have passed away,
And in their place left heads of grey.
Now, Min-nie, won't it be good fun
For each of us to ga-ther one,
And sit and blow them in the sun?
Very hard we both must blow,
And scat-ter all the seeds like snow,
That will be 'one o'clock,' you know."

TAK-ING CARE OF BA-BY.

Lit-tle, help-less ba-by dear,
  While with-in your cot you lie,
Sis-ter May is sit-ting near--
  She will sing your lul-la-by.

When at last you fall a-sleep,
  Not the slight-est noise she'll make;
Quiet as a mouse she'll keep,
  Lest she should her dar-ling wake.

May will watch you well, for though
  She can play and prat-tle too,
'Tis not very long ago
  Since she was a babe like you.

Then mam-ma o'er lit-tle May
  Day and night her watch would keep;
May her care can now re-pay,
  Watch-ing ba-by whilst a-sleep.

SUM-MER FLOW-ERS.

"The de-sert shall re-joice, and blos-som as the rose."--ISAIAH XXXV. I.

Be-hold the flow-ers of June! how fair
  And bright their buds ap-pear,
As, open-ing to the sum-mer air,
  Our eyes and hearts they cheer!

Who would have thought there could a-bound
  Such beau-ty and de-light
Be-neath the cold and win-try ground
  That hid those flow-ers from sight?

That pow-er which made and governs all--
  The might-y pow-er of God--
A-lone could life and beau-ty call
  Out of the life-less sod.

And He, who from the Win-ter's gloom
  Can Sum-mer thus dis-close,
Shall one day make the de-sert bloom,
  And blos-som as the rose.

"WHERE'S DICK-EY?"

"Look there!" lit-tle Lot-ty cried,
"Dick-ey's cage is o-pen wide,
And, I fear, he's not in-side. Cou-sin John,
Do please stand up-on this chair,
Just to see if he is there.
Pret-ty Dick, I won-der where
     You are gone!

"Naugh-ty puss, your jaws, you lick!
Have you eat-en lit-tle Dick?
That would be a cru-el trick! No, I see
Pret-ty Dick has flown a-way,
And is sing-ing blithe and gay,
Sit-ting yon-der on a spray
     Of the tree.

"Well, I too should think it wrong,
If a gi-ant, tall and strong,
Just to hear my lit-tle song ev-ery day,
Shut _me_ in a cage; and yet
Thus I did my lit-tle pet---
So he must be glad to get
     Safe a-way."

PLAY-ING AT OM-NI-BUS.

Says Hu-bert, "Look, how fast it pours!
I'm sure we can't go out of doors
  While it is rain-ing thus;
So let us in the nur-se-ry stay,
To have a mer-ry game, and play
  At driv-ing om-ni-bus.

"Flo-ra and Ted-dy, you must be
The horses, and be driv-en by me.
  Mind you go stea-dy--do!
A place for Char-lie we shall find;
To guard the 'bus he'll ride be-hind,
  And take the mon-ey too.

"Dick, with pa-pa's old hat to wear,
Looks just the thing to be a fare
  Who wants to ride with us.
Jump up, sir! Six-pence all the way!
Gee, gee, you horses! Gee, I say!"--
  Off goes the om-ni-bus!

GA-THER-ING POP-PIES.

Through the corn the chil-dren creep,
Where the nod-ding pop-pies sleep,
Fill-ing hands and a-prons white
With the scar-let blos-soms bright.
Gau-dy pop-pies must not stay
Till the fu-ture har-vest day:
They would wi-ther when the heat
Ri-pens all the gold-en wheat--
Life for them is short and sweet.

ON THE WA-TER.

In our lit-tle boat to glide
On the wa-ter blue and wide,
While the sky is smooth and bright,
What could give us more de-light?
See the rip-ples, how they run,
Twink-ling bright-ly in the sun;
While re-flect-ed we can see
Sha-dows of each hill and tree.
See the li-lies, round and large,
Float-ing near the reed-y marge,
Where the bul-rush has its place
And the hea-vy wa-ter-mace.
See the great green dra-gon-fly,
And the swal-low skim-ming by.
See the fish-es spring and gleam,
Ere they splash in-to the stream,
See the bright king-fish-er too
Dart a gleam of green and blue.
These are all a-round our boat
On the wa-ter whilst we float.

HURT-FUL WEEDS.

"Ev-e-ry plant, which My hea-ven-ly
Fa-ther hath not plant-ed, shall be root-ed
up."--ST. MATT. XV. 13.

Though in the corn that waves a-round
  Are thorns, and many hurt-ful weeds,
That spring in e-ven good-ly ground
  And plant-ed thick with choic-est seeds;

Though in our hearts, how-e-ver taught
  And trained to guard them-selves from sin,
The good is mixed with evil thought
  Our en-e-my has sown there-in,

God's plant-ing shall not be o'er-thrown
  By world-ly weeds that cling a-bout
His corn; and what He hath not sown
  Shall in His time be root-ed out.

Then, that our lives may yield their fruit,
  Still let it be our con-stant prayer,
That God from out our hearts will root
  All seeds He hath not plant-ed there.

THE BUT-TER-FLY.

A yel-low But-ter-fly one day,
  Grown tired of play and tired of fly-ing,
Up-on a this-tle blos-som grey
  With out-spread wings was i-dly ly-ing.

The stur-dy bees went hum-ming by,
  Draw-ing sweet ho-ney from the clo-ver,
Nor stir-red the yel-low But-ter-fly,
  For he was but an i-dle ro-ver.

Two lit-tle girls, named Anne and May,
  Came by with mirth and laugh-ter ring-ing,
Anne ran to seize the in-sect gay--
  May fol-low-ed fast and ceased her sing-ing.

"Oh! dar-ling An-nie, let it be,
  Your touch will rob its plumes of beau-ty;
And God, who made both you and me,
  Has taught us kind-ness is a du-ty."

"GO A-WAY, RO-VER!"

"You big black dog, go, go a-way!
  I will not let you bite
My lit-tle pet; it can-not play,
  You gave it such a fright!

"I think you want to eat it up
  Be-cause it is so small,
But if you dare to touch my pup
  For help I mean to call;

"And then pa-pa will bring a stick,
  And make you run a-way;
So, Ro-ver, you had best go quick,
  And leave us here to play!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Why, Ro-ver, is quite good and tame--
  You need not be a-fraid;
He on-ly wants to have a game,
  You sil-ly lit-tle maid!

THE RUSH PA-RA-SOL.

"Oh, come to the brook, sis-ter Kate,
  Oh, come with me, Het-ty and Gus,
Where rush-es, so long and so straight,
  Are grow-ing in thou-sands for us!"

Thus cries, to the rest, lit-tle May;
  And off to the mea-dow go all--
For nurse has just shown her the way
  Of mak-ing a rush pa-ra-sol.

LU-CY AND AR-THUR.

The day was fine, the sun was hot,
  So Lu-cy took her pail and spade,
And went to find a nice dry spot
  Where wells and cas-tles might be made.

But all the shore just then was wet,
  So Lu-cy took off shoes and socks;
She knew that nurse would fume and fret
  If they got spoilt by sand or rocks.

But Ar-thur was so strong and big,
  He thought that he was quite a man,
And he, in boots, would stand and dig,
  Which proved a very fool-ish plan.

For soon his boots got wet and cold,
  And hurt his feet, and made him cry;
He had to sit and hear nurse scold,
  While both his boots were put to dry.

THE PRO-VI-DENCE OF GOD.

"The Lord shall give that which is good,
and our land shall yield her increase."--PSALM lxxxv. 12.

The seed was sown long months a-go,
And, through the win-ter's cold and snow,
We trust-ed that God's care would bring
The green and ten-der blade in spring,
Which che-rished by the sun and rain
Of sum-mer, now has yield-ed grain
In au-tumn, when the reap-er leaves
His cot to cut and bind the sheaves,
And load with them the nod-ding wain
Which bears them home-ward from the plain.

So God's great mer-cies thus a-bound;
His love still brings the sea-sons round;
His bless-ings fill our hap-py fields,
And all our land its in-crease yields:
So if we serve Him as we should,
Our Lord will give us all things good;
And He who doth the ra-vens feed
Much more will give us all we need!

PLAY-ING A-MONG THE SHEAVES.

Oh, who could there be
More mer-ry than we,
  On this bright har-vest morn.
As we fro-lic and play,
While we hide a-way,
  A-mong the sheaves of corn?

We may fro-lic still
Wher-e-ver we will,
  But yet we must not tread
To waste with our feet
The grains of the wheat--
  The wheat that makes our bread.

For God, as we need,
Gives the corn to feed
  And make us well and strong;
And to waste in vain
His gift of the grain
  Would grieve Him, and be wrong.

KEEP-ING SCHOOL.

Oh, tell me if e-ver you knew
  A teach-er who looked so se-vere
As sis-ter Ma-ri-a can do,
  When les-sons she's go-ing to hear?

Just look how she holds up her cane
  And frowns, as she threat-ens each one!
But yet they'll not cry or com-plain,
  Be-cause it is only in fun.

The dunce's cap Dol-ly must wear,
  Her task was not learnt very well;
And now lit-tle Jane, I de-clare,
  Pre-tends she's un-a-ble to spell.

Yet sis-ter may hold up her cane,
  And though they'll look so-lemn, each one,
From laugh-ter they scarce can re-frain.
  Be-cause it is only in fun.

SNAP AP-PLE.

"Come, while it spins round, try your luck;
  Come, E-thel, and Kate, and your bro-thers!
On two ends two ap-ples are stuck,
  And an on-ion on each of the o-thers.
Be ready, and snap as they pass,
  Be quick, if you mean to be right,
Or not the sweet ap-ples, a-las!
  'Twill be, but the on-ions, you'll bite."

MILK-ING TIME.

Through the long day the cows are seen
  All graz-ing as they go,
Wan-der-ing a-long the mea-dows green
  Where yel-low hawk-weeds grow.

But when the clock with-in the tower
  Strikes five, they al-ways pace
Slow-ly--for well they know the hour--
  Home to the milk-ing place.

Then in the yard quite still they stand,
  Swing-ing their la-zy tails,
Where Ann and Su-san are at hand
  With stools and milk-ing pails

I love to see the white milk flow,
  And in the pail froth up;
And Ann, who is so kind, I know,
  Will let me fill my cup.

AU-TUMN.

"Be glad then, and re-joice in the Lord your God."--JOEL ii. 23.

'Tis au-tumn now; the corn is cut,
  But o-ther gifts for us are spread,
The pur-ple plum, the ripe brown nut,
  And pears and ap-ples, streaked with red,
A-mong the dark-green branch-es shine,
  Or on the grass be-neath them fall;
While full green clus-ters deck the vine
  That trails o'er trel-lis, roof, and wall.

In our dear land the la-den trees
  Be-speak God's pro-vi-dence and love;
He sends all need-ful gifts like these
  For those who trust in Him a-bove.
How good is He to make such choice
  Of plea-sant fruits for us to grow!
'Tis meet, in-deed, that we re-joice
  In Him who loves His chil-dren so.

THE SQUIR-REL.

"Squir-rel, squir-rel, brown and brisk,
  High a-bove me in the tree,
I can see you bound and frisk,
  I can see you peep at me.

"Squir-rel, squir-rel, you can play;
  Mer-rier beast is none than you;
Yet you are not only gay,
  You are wise and mer-ry too.

You can play till sum-mer's o'er,
  And the nuts come fall-ing free,
Then to hoard your win-ter store
  You are busy as a bee.

"Squir-rel, squir-rel, I would bound
  Gai-ly at my sports as you,
And, like you, I would be found
  Care-ful for the fu-ture too."

"CON-TRA-RY WINDS"

Both Tom and Will had e-qual skill
  In mak-ing lit-tle boats and ships;
They cut a-way a whole half day,
  And co-vered all the floor with chips.

And when the boys had made their toys,
  They thought to put them to the test--
To try which boat, when set a-float,
  Would sail a-cross a tub the best.

But Will and Tom, each blow-ing from
  A dif-fe-rent side, you well may guess,
No boats could go straight on, and so
  They tacked a-bout in great dis-tress.

Such heavy gales a-gainst their sails
  Made both the boats go whirl-ing round;
The sails got wet, the boats up-set,
  And all the crew on board were drowned.

BAT-TLE-DORE AND SHUT-TLE-COCK.

See these mer-ry chil-dren four,
Now their les-son time is o'er,
Deal-ing with the bat-tle-dore
  Steady blow on blow;

Till the fea-thered shut-tle-cocks
Fly at their al-ter-nate knocks,
"Re-gu-lar as kitch-en clocks,"
  Spin-ning to and fro.

CUT-TING NAMES.

See where the spread-ing beech has made
Be-neath its boughs a plea-sant shade
  To screen them from the sun;
There George, and Anne, and Ma-ry play,
Or read up-on each sun-ny day,
  When all their tasks are done.

George has pulled out his knife, you see,
And on the smooth-barked beech-en tree
  Has some-thing found to do;
He's carv-ing deep, and plain, and well
The let-ters, one by one, which spell
  His name and An-nie's too.

His sis-ter An-nie, stand-ing by,
Is watch-ing with a cu-ri-ous eye,
  And won-der-ing at his skill.
To men and wo-men when they grow,
They'll come and find the beech tree show
  Those names quite plain-ly still.

THE CON-CERT.

"See how it rains! We can-not go
Our walk a-cross the fields; and so,
Since Tom and Et-tie Holmes are come,
And cous-in Fred has brought his drum,
And some can sing, and o-thers play,
We'll have a con-cert here to-day.
You, Tom, must in the mid-dle stand,
And mark the time, with stick in hand;
You, bro-ther Ben, the tongs must take,
For they will good tri-an-gles make;
Hal clicks the 'bones,' and Em-me-line
Will beat her lit-tle tam-bour-ine,
And cous-in Fred will drum a-way,
And Kate the con-cer-ti-na play.
All must at-tend to Tom; and mind
None play too fast, nor lag be-hind;
And then, I'm sure, we all shall see
How grand a con-cert this will be,
And say this is the wis-est way
To spend this wet Oc-to-ber day."

PLAY-ING WITH WOOD-EN BRICKS.

An In-di-an tem-ple on the floor
  The chil-dren build with wood-en bricks,
They've placed two pil-lars by the door,
  And on the roof they now would fix
A good tall spire, so Et-ty takes
  A long-er brick, and sets it there;
And though when-e'er we walk it shakes,
  It will not tum-ble, I de-clare!

CAUGHT IN THE FOG.

Anne and Jane will long re-mem-her
How, one morn-ing in No-vem-ber,
As they both were home-ward stroll-ing,
Round the Lon-don fog came roll-ing--
First, a yel-low dark-ness fall-ing,
Then a noise of link-boys call-ing,
Cab, and 'bus, and cart-wheels rum-bling,
Hor-ses on the pave-ment stum-bling,
Peo-ple, in the smoke and smo-ther,
Run-ning up a-gainst each other,
No one see-ing, much less know-ing,
Whi-ther he or she was go-ing.
Little Jane clung to her sis-ter,
While Anne com-fort-ed and kissed her,
For the girls felt bro-ken-heart-ed,
Fear-ing lest they should be part-ed.
So they were when Char-lie found them,
Lost a-mid the crowd a-round them,
But so glad when they es-pied him,
And came trip-ping home beside him.

TRUST IN GOD.

"He ma-keth light-nings for the rain;
He bring-eth the wind out of His trea-sur-ies."--Ps. CXXXV. 7.

Our God who reign-est up on high,
Though light-nings flash a-cross the sky,
And howl-ing tem-pests hur-ry by,
We fear not these, for Thou art nigh
  To all who trust in Thee.

Though now the sky is o-ver-cast,
And hea-vy rains are fall-ing fast,
And storm and sleet go driv-ing past,
And day by day the moan-ing blast
  Sweeps dead leaves from the tree,

No-vem-ber time, that seems so drear,
When days are dark and win-ter near,
Will pass at length, and Christ-mas cheer
The last hours of the dy-ing year
  With song and dance and mirth.

And in due time Thy mighty pow-er
Will give the spring, with sun and shower,
The o-pen-ing leaf, the ear-ly flow-er,
And birds in e-ve-ry wood-land bow-er
  Will sing to glad-den earth.

HOME FROM SCHOOL.

Come, Meg and El-len, don't com-plain,
For, see, the geese en-joy the rain,
  And dog-gie does not fret;
    And yet,
The drops come rol-ling down his ears,
And nose, and whisk-ers, just like tears;
  Poor Mop, he's drip-ping wet!
Our big um-brel-la co-vers three,
And snug and dry we all may be,
  And chat-ter as we go,
    And show
The grumb-ling peo-ple whom we meet
That nei-ther wind, nor driv-ing sleet,
  Can spoil our tem-pers.--No,
We will not take such days as this,
Nor any-thing God sends, a-miss,
  But what we can-not cure
    Endure;
And this will prove a Gold-en Rule
To prac-tise as we walk from school--
  Of that we may be sure.

THE KIT-TENS' BATH.

One day when Lil-lie saw her cat
  Sit down and lick a kit-ten's face;
"No, puss," said she, "don't wash like that--
  My bath will be the pro-per place.

"I'll show you how to wash them, puss."
  So in she dipped them one by one;
Poor Min-nie mewed and made a fuss,
  But Lil-lie only thought it fun.

Puss feared her lit-tle kits would drown,
  And did her best to get them out;
While Lil-lie dipped them up and down,
  And splashed the wa-ter all a-bout.

Till nurse came up and saw the mess,
  Took out the kit-tens, and instead
Made thought-less Lil-lie quite un-dress,
  And have her bath and go to bed.

TURN-ING THE TRENCH-ER.

If, at this old Christ-mas game,
  Kate, who spins the trench-er, call
Any play-er out by name,
  He must catch it ere it fall.

If "Move all" she should re-peat,
  All sit still; but if she say
"Twi-light," each must change his seat,
  Or a for-feit he must pay.

THE WISE MEN OF THE EAST.

The East-ern sages watched the sky,
  They looked from night till morn,
There shone a bright, new star on high,
  They knew that Christ was born.

Then up they rose, and came from far,
  They jour-neyed night and day,
Led by the shin-ing of that star,
  And found Him where He lay.

There is not any need for us
  To leave our homes be-hind,
Through dis-tant lands to tra-vel thus
  The Son of God to find.

For home to us each Christ-mas Day
  The new-born Sa-vi-our brings;
Then shall we not our hom-age pay
  Like those good East-ern kings?generously made available by The Internet Archive)

A FLORAL FANTASY IN AN OLD ENGLISH GARDEN

BY WALTER CRANE

NEW YORK & LONDON HARPER AND BROTHERS

A FLORAL FANTASY IN AN OLD ENGLISH GARDEN

  SET FORTH IN
  VERSES & COLOURED
  DESIGNS
  BY
  WALTER CRANE

  LONDON: AT THE
  HOUSE OF HARPER
  AND BROTHERS:

THE OLD ENGLISH GARDEN

A FLORAL PHANTASY

  In an old world garden dreaming,
  Where the flowers had human names,
  Methought, in fantastic seeming,
  They disported as squires and dames.

  Of old in Rosamond's Bower,
  With it's peacock hedges of yew,
  One could never find the flower
  Unless one was given the clue;
  So take the key of the wicket,
  Who would follow my fancy free,
  By formal knot and clipt thicket,
  And smooth greensward so fair to see

  And while Time his scythe is whetting,
  Ere the dew from the grass has gone,

  The Four Seasons' flight forgetting,
  As they dance round the dial stone;

  With a leaf from an old English book,
  A Jonquil will serve for a pen.

  Let us note from the green arbour's nook,
  Flowers masking like women and men.

  FIRST in VENUS'S LOOKING GLASS,
  You may see where LOVE LIES BLEEDING,

  While PRETTY MAIDS all of them pass
  With careless hearts quite unheeding.

  Next, a knight with his flaming targe
  See the DENT-DE-LION so bold
  With his feathery crest at large,
  On a field of the cloth of gold.

  Simple honesty shows in vain
  A fashion few seek to robe in,
  While the poor SHEPHERD'S-PURSE is ta'en
  By rascally RAGGED-ROBIN.

  COLTSFOOT
  and
  LARKSPUR

  SPEEDWELL

  In the race of the flowers that's run due,

  As the HARTSTONGUE pants at the well

  And the HOUNDSTONGUE laps the SUNDEW.

  Here's VENUS'-COMBE for MAIDENHAIR:
  While KING-CUPS drink BELLA-DONNA,

  Glad in purple and gold so fair,
  Though the DEADLY NIGHTSHADE'S upon her.

  Behold LONDON PRIDE robed & crowned,
  Ushered in by the GOLDEN ROD,
  While a floral crowd press around,
  Just to win from her crest a nod.

  The FOXGLOVES are already on.
  Not only in pairs but dozens;
  They've come out to see all the fun,
  With sisters and aunts and cousins.

  The STITCHWORK looked up with a sigh
  At BATCHELOR'S BUTTONS unsewn:

  Single Daisies were not in her eye,
  For the grass was just newly mown.

  The HORSE-TAIL, 'scaped from WOLFE'S CLAW,
  Rides off with a LADIES' LAGES.

  The FRIAR'S-COWL hides a doctor of law,
  And the BISHOP'S-WEED covers his grace's

  The SNAPDRAGON opened his jaw,
  But, at sight of Scotch THISTLE, turned pale:

  He'd too many points of the law
  For a dragon without a scale.

  Little JENNY-CREEPER lay low,
  Till happy thoughts made her gladder;
  How to rise in the world she'd know,
  So she climbed up JACOB'S LADDER

  SWEET WILLIAM with MARYGOLD
  Seek HEARTSEASE in the close box-border.
  Where, starched in their ruff's stiff fold,
  DUTCH DAHLIAS prim, keep order.

  NARCISSUS bends over the brook,
  Intent upon DAFFA-DOWN-DILLY:

  While EYEBRIGHT observes from her nook,
  And wonders he could be so silly.

  A LANCE FOR A LAD 'gainst KING'S SPEAR.
  When the BUGLE sounds for the play

  A LADIES MANTLE flaunting there
  Is the banner that leads the fray.

  KNIGHT'S SPUR to the LADIES BOWER
  To seek for the LADIES SLIPPER.

  'Twas lost in the wood in a summer shower
  When the CLOWN'S WORT tried to trip her.

  TOAD-FLAX is spun for BUTTER-AND-EGGS

  On a LADIES' CUSHION sits THRIFT
  She never wastes, or steals, or begs,
  But she can't give poor RAGWORT a lift.

  QUEEN OF THE MEADS is MEADOWSWEET,
  In the realm of grasses wide:

  But not in all her court you meet
  The turbaned TURK'S HEAD in his pride.

  Fair BETHLEHEM' STAR shineth bright,
  In a lowly place, as of old,

  And through the green gloom glows the light
  Of ST. JOHN'S-WORT--a nimbus of gold.

  But the hours of the sun swift glide,
  And the flowers with them are speeding.

  Though LOVE-IN-A-MIST may hide.
  When Time's in the garden weeding.

  There's TRAVELLER'S JOY
  To entwine,
  At our journey's end for greeting,

  We can talk over SOPS-IN-WINE,
  And drink to our next merry meeting.

  PRINTED
  BY
  EDMUND
  EVANS

  BOUND
  BY
  LEIGHTON
  SON &
  HODGE

                  Queen Summer

                      or
                  The Tourney
                    of the
                     Lily
                       &
                   the Rose

                 Walter Crane

                 Cassell & Co
                     Ld:

       *       *       *       *       *

                 Queen Summer
                or the Tourney
            of the Lily & the Rose
              penned & portrayed
               by Walter Crane

  Cassell & Co: Ld: London: Paris: & Melbourne

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

  When Summer on the earth was queen
  She held her court in gardens green
  Fair hung with tapestry of leaves,
  Where threads of gold the sun enweaves
  With checquered patterns on the floor
  Of velvet lawns the scythe smoothes o'er:
  Their waving fans the soft winds spread
  Each way to cool Queen Summer's head:
  The woodland dove made music soft,
  And Eros touched his lute full oft.

  Round Time's dial thronged the hours,
    Masking in the Masque of Flowers

  Like knights and ladies fair be-dight
    In silk attire, both red and white.

  And as the winds about them played,
    And shook the flowers or disarrayed,

  A whispered word among them goes
    Of how the Lily flouts the Rose,

  Suitors for Summer's favor dear,
    To win the crown of all the year--
  And how each champion brave would fight,
    Queen Summer to decide the right.

  Then shrill the wind-winged heralds blew;
  The lists were set in Summer's view,

  With blazoned shields, & pennons spruce
  Of fluttering flag & fleur-de-luce:

  And spread with 'broidered hangings gay,
  Till all was ready for the fray.

  Between their banners white and red,
    Of Rose and Lily overhead,
      Queen Summer took her judgment seat,
  Whom all the crowd of flowers did greet.

  The silver arum-trumpet's sound
  With tongues of gold, & to the ground
  The shining champions each did ride,
  Their party-colours flaunting wide.

  Came first the glowing Rose in view,
  With crimson pennon fluttering new;
  With glittering spines all armed he came,
  With lance and shield--a rose aflame;
  With tossing crest and mantling free,
  On fiery steed,--a sight to see!

  Nor long the Lily knight delayed;
  In silver armour white arrayed,
  He flashed like light upon the scene,
  A lamp amid the garden green.
  Milk-white his horse, & housings fair
  With silver lilies shining there.

  The summer winds the onset blew:
  With level lance each champion flew,

  And clashed together, mid a snow
    Of petals on the grass below.

  Pressed eager then the gazing rows:
  Some cried, "the Lily", some, "the Rose"
  But while the fate of battle hung,
  Again the silver trumpets sung;

  And, sudden charging from each side,
    Of Roses and of Lilies ride
  A host to still maintain the strife
    For roses or for lilies' life

  Rose favoured knights of maidens true,
  Their pennons blushing with each hue
  Of Rose-craft, since from wild thorn frail
  Their order grew--through dark & pale
  Of maiden-bloom to damask deep,
  Or Gloire-de-Dijon that doth keep
  Enfolded fire within his breast,
  Still golden hearted like the rest.

  Like a cloud of morn they bore,
  Or rosy wave on grassy shore,
  That, breaking, dashed the silver spray
  Thay met--the Lily-lances play;
  In crested legends on that came
  Against them--snow & burning flame
  Mixing with the crimson flood
  Of roses & their fragrant blood,

  Whereof the grass undue was rife,
  As surged & rolled the floral strife,
  With checquered fortune o'er the green,
  Until at last up-rose the Queen:

  And caused the zephyr horns to blow
  A truce, the victor's crown to show.
  But like a garland on the ground
  Of roses & of lilies found,
  So linked & locked in strife they lay
  Each silver stem & clinging spray,

  The doughty champions could not rise
  Before the Queen to claim her prize.
  So to the field of battle down
  She stepped, with rose & lily crown
  Of silver & of gold fair wrought;
  And thus Queen Summer spake her thought:

  And to each warrior thus did say:
  Read in the fortune of your fray
  Fit emblem sweet of unity,
  Nor Rose nor Lily plant on high,
  But side by side in equal right,
  And pleasant cheer the Red & White:

  That men & maids be glad to see,
  Always in pleasant company,

  Life & Love close linked together,
  And strong to bear times' wintry weather

  Love not consumed in passion's heart
  But golden flamed & stedfast, sweet:

  Time's snows shall quench not, though they hide:
  Each spring renews the rosy tide:

  Each lover in his lady's face
  Sees roses blent with lilies' grace:

  The poet & the painter praise
  This heraldry of summer days;

  And every garden sweet that blows
  Doth set the Lily by the Rose.

  Peace, then in all my borders be,
  Beneath the silvern olive tree."

  Each rose, each lily's head bent low,
  And each one sought his fallen foe:

  And careful hands the wounded bore,
  With balm and honey to restore:

  And trimmed the grass & decked each seat,
  And made all fit for dancer's feet;

  Beneath the summer full-orbed moon,
  Ruddy & gold that rose full soon,
  Like rose & lily fused in fire,
  Ere the sunset's torch expire.

  Then forth each knightly lily led
  A blushing rosy dame so red;

  Nor lily hands or hearts denied
  The rose-hued warriors erst defied.

  Light-footed through the dance's maze,
  Quick they moved like winged fays;
  As measured music soft did swell,
  And echoed deep from bosky dell,
  Till, from the leafy forest side,
  The sweet-tongued nightingale replied,
  Dissolved in streams of silver sound,
  Merged in the moonlight, lost & found;
  Like the dancers, till in shade,
  Of Summer's verdant night they fade.

       *       *       *       *       *

               Cassell & Co: Lm:FABLES IN RHYME FOR LITTLE FOLKS,

Adapted from the French of La Fontaine.

Written by,
W. T. Larned

Illustrated by,
John Rae.

E-Book Created by Tyler Anderson,
as a birthday present to little
Johnny James Webb, on his first Birthday.
I've arranged the images so they fit the story.

To All Little Americans
With The Hope That
They May Become Better Acquainted
With
Our Friends, The French.

A Preface For Parents

La Fontaine composed the most entertaining Fables ever
written in any language, and made them a model of literary
perfection; yet our translators and compilers have somehow
neglected him. His Fables are lyric poetry of a high order,
and this alone has doubtless been a barrier to a better
acquaintance with his work when transferred to our own
tongue. Done into prose, the Fables are no longer
La Fontaine, but take their place with the many
respectable, dull translations which English readers try to
admire because they are classics--though the soul that
made them such has been separated from the dead body.

It has seemed to me that while the full enjoyment of
La Fontaine must always be reserved for those who can
read him in French, it might be possible at least to convey
something of his originality and blithe spirit through the
medium of light verse. In making the attempt I am fully
aware of my temerity, and the criticism it will invite. To
excuse the one and to meet the other I have taken refuge
in the term "adaptation"--even though the word applies
only in part to my paraphrases. Some of the Fables in
this book are translations in a true sense, and keep
closely to the text. From others I have erased such
political, mythological and literary allusions (in which
La Fontaine abounds) as are either obsolete or
unintelligible to a child.

But my chief literary sin--if sin it be--is twofold. In the first
place I have departed wholly from the metrical arrangements
of the originals--substituting therefore a variety of forms in
line and stanza that more accord with the modern and
American ear. In the second place I have had the
hardihood--as in "The Lion and The Gnat"--to modify the
elegance of the original with phrases more appropriate to
our contemporary beasts. Animal talk, I feel sure, has lost
something of its stateliness since the days when our
French author overheard it. The Owl is no less pedantic
perhaps, but the Lion certainly has declined in
majesty--along with our human kings.

For these offenses, La Fontaine--who forgave everyone--is
bound to forgive me. The most good-humored Frenchmen,
he could condone all faults but dullness. That offense
against French fundamental principles invariably put him
to sleep--whether the bore who button-holed him was a
savant of the Sorbonne or just an ordinary ass.

One thing more. This little collection from his 240 Fables is
meant, first of all, for children. In assembling it no Fable
was admitted that has not been approved by generations
of the young and old. No apologue addressed to the
mature intelligence alone, or framed to fit the society
of his day, is here included.

Many books which men have agreed to call classics are
seldom taken down from the shelves. It is otherwise with
La Fontaine. His Fables were eagerly read by the great
men and women of his time, and are still read and
enjoyed all the world over.

The causes of this lasting popularity are not obscure. From
the earliest period--whether in India, Greece, Arabia or
Rome--the Fable has pleased and instructed mankind. It
told important truths, easily perceived, in an entertaining
way; and often said more in a few words than could be
said through any other kind of writing. Now, no one person
is the author of the Fables we know so well. Aesop did not
write the Fables bearing his name. There is even reason to
believe that Aesop is himself a Fable. At any rate, the
things ascribed to him are the work of many hands, and
have undergone many changes. These old stories of
animals began to be written so long ago, and the history
of them is so vague and confusing, that only in recent
years have scholars at last been able to trace them, and
to fix their authorship.

The significant thing to keep in mind is that, for twentieth
century readers, the best Fables are not merely the best
ones ever written, but the best ones re-written. In other
words, the Fable was for centuries an old story in a rough
state, and the writers who have made it most interesting
are the writers who told it over again in a manner that
makes it Art. A Greek named Babrius, of whom almost
nothing is known, is remembered because he collected
and versified some of the so-called Fables of Aesop. A
Roman slave named Phaedrus also put these Fables
into Latin verse; and his work to-day is a text book in
our colleges.

Among modern writers, it was reserved for La Fontaine to
take these ancient themes and make them his own--just
as Moliere, "taking his own wherever he found it," borrowed
freely from the classics for his greatest plays; just as
Shakespeare re-formed forgotten tales with the glow and
splendor of surpassing genius, so La Fontaine turned to
India, Greece, Italy, and furnishing the old Fables and
facetious tales, refreshed them with his originality. Some
of them were his own inventions, but for the most part
they were "Aesop" and Phaedrus, made over by poetic
art and vivified with a wit and humor characteristically
French.

But if La Fontaine's fame endures, it is not alone that he
was the greatest lyric poet of a great literary period.
Apart from the wit and fancy of his creations--apart from
the philosophy, wisdom, and knowledge of human nature
that so delighted Moliere, Boileau and Racine--his Fables
disclose the goodness and simplicity of one who lived
much with Nature, and cared nothing for the false
splendors of the court. Living most of his life in the
country, the woods, and streams and fields had been a
constant source of inspiration. He saw animals through
the eyes of a naturalist and poet; and when he came to
make them talk, the little fishes "talked like little
fishes--not like whales". With Shakespeare's banished
Frenchman in the Forest of Arden, he
Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
Sermons in stones, and good in everything.

An anecdote often told of him aptly illustrates his habit
of mind. He was late in coming to a fashionable dinner,
and his excuse was this:
"I hope you will pardon me," he said. "I was detained at
the funeral of an ant, and I could not come until the
ceremony was over."

This was not a pleasantry, but the truth. He had been
watching an ant-hill, and was so absorbed in observing
a dead ant carried off by the living colonists for burial
that he had forgotten his engagement.

The first six volumes of the Fables--published in 1668,
when he was 47, and in Paris--were an immediate and
brilliant success, at a time when French genius was in
full flower. But the literary men of that golden age got
their pecuniary reward not from the public, but from
patrons. Later in life, when La Fontaine at last was
graciously recognized by the grand monarch, he
appeared before the royal presence to receive his due.
Even then, with his usual absentmindedness, he forgot
to bring the book he was to present, and left behind him
in the carriage the purse of gold the King bestowed
upon him.

However, the Fables brought him much in fame and
friendship. Everybody loved La Fontaine. Favorite of great
lords and ladies, the court of Louis XIV could not make
him otherwise than natural. Poor and improvident, poverty
had no pangs for him. No sorrow ever gave him a
sleepless hour. To the last he lived up to his
nickname--Bon-homme. And it is the gentle and good
man who is always looking out at us at us from the
fables he refashioned for all time.

William Trowbridge Larned.
New York, July 1918.

This book contains the following Fables
from the French of La Fontaine:

The Frog Who Wished To Be As Big As The Ox.
The Grasshopper And The Ant.
The Cat And The Fox.
The Hen With The Golden Eggs.
The Dog And His Image.
The Acorn And The Pumpkin.
The Raven And The Fox.
The City Mouse And The Country Mouse.
The Lion And The Gnat.
The Dove And The Ant.
The Fox And The Grapes.
The Ass In The Lion's Skin.
The Fox And The Stork.
The Monkey And The Cat.
The Hare And The Tortoise.
The Heron Who Was Hard To Please.
The Raven Who Would Rival The Eagle.
The Miller, His Son And The Ass.

The Frog Who Wished To Be As Big As The Ox.

There was a little Fog
Whose home was in a bog,
And he worried 'cause he wasn't big enough.
He sees an ox and cries:
"That's just about my size,
If I stretch myself--Say Sister, see me puff!"

So he blew, blew, blew,
Saying: "Sister, will that do?"
But she shook her head. And then he lost his wits.
For he stretched and puffed again
Till he cracked beneath the strain,
And burst, and flew about in little bits.

The Grasshopper And The Ant.

The Grasshopper, singing
All summer long,
Now found winter stinging,
And ceased in his song.
Not a morsel or crumb in his cupboard--
So he shivered, and ceased in his song.

Miss Ant was his neighbor;
To her he went:
"O, you're rich from labor,
And I've not a cent.
Lend me food, and I vow I'll return it,
Though at present I have not a cent."

The Ant's not a lender,
I must confess.
Her heart's far from tender
To one in distress.
So she said: "Pray, how passed you the summer,
That in winter you come to distress?"

"I sang through the summer,"
Grasshopper said.
"But now I am glummer
Because I've no bread."
"So you sang!" sneered the Ant. "That relieves me.
Now it's winter--go dance for your bread!"

The Cat And The Fox.

The Cat and the Fox once took a walk together,
Sharpening their wits with talk about the weather
And as their walking sharpened appetite, too;
They also took some things they had no right to.
Cream, that is so delicious when it thickens,
Pleased the Cat best. The Fox liked little chickens.

With stomachs filled, they presently grew prouder,
And each began to try to talk the louder--
Bragging about his skill, and strength, and cunning.
"Pooh!" said the Fox. "You ought to see me running.
Besides, I have a hundred tricks. You Cat, you!
What can you do when Mr. Dog comes at you?"
"To tell the truth," the Cat said, "though it grieve me
I've but one trick. Yet that's enough--believe me!"

There came a pack of fox-hounds--yelping, baying.
"Pardon me", said the Cat. "I can't be staying.
This is my trick." And up a tree he scurried,
Leaving the Fox below a trifle worried.

In vain he tried his hundred tricks and ruses
(The sort of thing that Mr. Dog confuses)--
Doubling, and seeking one hole, then another--
Smoked out of each until he thought he'd smother.
At last as he once more came out of cover,
Two nimble dogs pounced on him--All was over!

The Hen With The Golden Eggs.

To this lesson in greed,
Pray, little ones, heed:

Each day, we are told,
A most wonderful Hen
Laid an egg made of gold
For this meanest of men.

So greedy was he,
He was not satisfied.
"What is one egg to me?
I want all that' inside!"

He cut off her head,
And began to explore.
But the poor hen was dead.
And could lay eggs no more.

The Dog And His Image.

A foolish Dog, who carried in his jaw
A juicy bone,
Looked down into a stream, and there he saw
Another one,
Splash! In he plunged.. The image disappeared--
The meat he had was gone.
Indeed, he nearly sank,
And barely reached the bank.

The Acorn and the Pumpkin.

Once there was a country bumpkin
Who observed a great big pumpkin
To a slender stem attached;
While upon an oak tree nourished,
Little acorns grew and flourished.
"Bah!" said he. "That's badly matched."

"If, despite my humble station,
I'd a hand in this Creation,
Pumpkins on the oaks would be;
And the acorn, light and little,
On this pumpkin stem so brittle
Would be placed by clever Me."

Then, fatigued with so much thought, he
Rest beneath the oak tree sought. He
Soon in slumber found repose
But, alas! An acorn, falling
On the spot where he lay sprawling,
Hit him--plump!--Upon the nose.

Up he jumped--a wiser bumpkin.
"Gosh!" he said. "Suppose a pumpkin
Came a-fallin' on my face!
After all, if I had made things,
I'll allow that I'm afraid things
Might be some what out of place."

The Raven And The Fox.

Mr. Raven was perched upon a limb,
And Reynard the Fox looked up at him;
For the Raven held in his great big beak
A morsel the Fox would go far to seek.

Said the Fox, in admiring tones: "My word!
Sir Raven, you are a handsome bird.
Such feathers! If you would only sing,
The birds of these woods would call you King."

The Raven, who did not see the joke,
Forgot that his voice was just a croak.
He opened his beak, in his foolish pride--
And down fell the morsel the Fox had spied.

"Ha-ha!" said the Fox. "And now you see
You should not listen to flattery.
Vanity, Sir is a horrid vice--
I'm sure the lesson is worth the price."

The City Mouse And The Country Mouse.

A City Mouse, with ways polite,
A Country Mouse invited
To sup with him and spend the night.
Said Country Mouse: "De--lighted!"
In truth it proved a royal treat,
With everything that's good to eat.

Alas! When they had just begun
To gobble their dinner,
A knock was heard that made them run.
The City Mouse seemed thinner.
And as they scampered and turned tail,
He saw the Country Mouse grow pale.

The knocking ceased. A false alarm!
The City Mouse grew braver.
"Come back!" he cried. "No, no! The farm,
Where I'll not quake or quaver,
Suits me," replied the Country Mouse.
"You're welcome to your city house."

The Lion And The Gnat.

The Lion once said to the Gnat: "You brat,
Clear out just as quick as you can, now--s'cat!
If you meddle with me
I will not guarantee
That you won't be slammed perfectly flat--
D'ye see?"

Said the Gnat: "Because you're called King--you
thing!--
You fancy that you will make me take wing.
Why, an ox weighs much more,
Yet I drive him before
When I get good and ready to sting.
Now, roar!"

Then loudly his trumpet he blew. And--whew!
How fiercely and fast at his foe he flew.
From the tail to the toes
He draws blood as he goes.
Then he starts in to sting and to chew
His nose.

Sir Lion was mad with the pain. In vain
He roared and he foamed and he shook his mane.
All the beasts that were nigh
Fled in fear from his cry.
But the Gnat only stung him again--
In the eye.

He looked and laughed as he saw--Haw, Haw!--
The Lion self-torn by his tooth and claw,
So His Majesty's hide
With his own blood was dyed.
Said the Gnat: "Shall I serve you up raw--
Or fried?"

It's finished. The Lion's loud roar is o'er.
He's bitten and beaten, he's sick and sore.
But a spider's web spread
Trapped the Gnat as he sped
With the news...He will never fight more--
He's dead!

The Dove And The Ant.

An Ant who in a brook would drink
Fell off the bank. He tried
To swim, and felt his courage sink--
This ocean seemed so wide.
But for a dove who flew above
He would have drowned and died.

The friendly Dove within her beak
A bridge of grass-stem bore:
On this the Ant, though worn and weak.
Contrived to reach the shore
Said he: "The tact of this kind act
I'll cherish evermore."

Behold! A barefoot wretch went by
With slingshot in his hand.
Said he: "You'll make a pigeon pie
That will be kind of grand."
He meant to murder the gentle bird--
Who did not understand.

The Ant then stung him on the heel
(So quick to see the sling).
He turned his head, and missed a meal:
The pigeon pie took wing.
And so the Dove lived on to love--
Beloved by everything.

The Fox And The Grapes.

Rosy and ripe, and ready to box,
The grapes hang high o'er the hungry Fox.--
He pricks up his ears, and his eye he cocks.

Ripe and rosy, yet so high!--
He gazes at them with a greedy eye,
And knows he must eat and drink--or die.

When the jump proves to be beyond his power--
"Pooh!" says the Fox. "Let the pigs devour
Fruit of that sort. Those grapes are sour!"

The Ass In The Lion's Skin.

An Ass in The Lion's skin arrayed
Made everybody fear.
And this was queer,
Because he was himself afraid.
Yet everywhere he strayed
The people ran like deer.

Ah, ah! He is betrayed:
No lion has that long and hairy ears.

Old Martin spied the tip; and country folk
Who are not in the secret of the joke,
With open mouths and eyes
Stare at old Martin's prize--
A Lion led to mill, with neck in yoke.

The Fox And The Stork.

Old Father Fox, who was known to be mean,
Invited Dame Stork in to dinner.
There was nothing but soup that could scarcely be seen:--
Soup never was served any thinner.
And the worst of it was, as I'm bound to relate,
Father Fox dished it up on a flat china plate.

Dame Stork, as you know, has a very long beak:
Not a crumb or drop could she gather
Had she pecked at the plate every day in the week.
But as for the Fox--sly old Father:
With his tongue lapping soup at a scandalous rate,
He licked up the last bit and polished the plate.

Pretty soon Mistress Stork spread a feast of her own;
Father Fox was invited to share it.
He came, and he saw, and he gave a great groan:
The stork had known how to prepare it.
She had meant to get even, and now was her turn:
Father Fox was invited to eat from an urn.

The urn's mouth was small, and it had a long neck;
The food in it smelled most delightful.
Dame Stork, with her beak in, proceeded to peck;
But the Fox found that fasting is frightful.
Home he sneaked. On his way there he felt his ears burn
When he thought of the Stork and her tall, tricky urn.

The Monkey And The Cat.

Jocko the Monkey, Mouser--his chum, the Cat,
Had the same master. Both were sleek and fat,
And mischievous. If anything went wrong,
The neighbors where not blamed. Be sure of that.

Jocko, 'tis said was something of a thief;
Mouser, if truth be told, would just as lief
Much stolen cheese as chase the midnight mouse.
The praise bestowed on either must be brief.

One day these rogues, stretched flat before the fire,
Saw chestnuts roassting. "Ah! Could we conspire
To jerk them out," said Jocko, "from the coals,
We'd smash the shells and have our heart's desire.

"Come, Brother Mouser! This day 'tis your turn
To do some bold and desperate thing to earn
A reputation. You, who are so quick,
Snatch out the nuts before they start to burn.

"Alas! That I, a Monkey, was not made
To play with fire. But you are not afraid."
So Mouser--pleased, like many a cat or man,
With pretty words--sly Jocko's wish obeyed.

Into the fire he put a practiced paw:
Out came a chestnut clinging to his claw--
Another and another. As they dropped
Jocko devoured them, whether roast or raw.

A servant enters. Off the robbers run.
Jocko, you may be sure, enjoyed the fun.
But Mouser's paw is sadly singed--for what?
Just to get nuts for Jocko. He got none.

The Hare And The Tortoise.

Said the Tortoise one day to the Hare:
"I'll run you a race if you dare.
I'll bet you cannot
Arrive at that spot
As quickly as I can get there."

Quoth the Hare: "You are surely insane.
Pray, what has affected your brain?
You seem pretty sick.
Call a doctor in--quick,
And let him prescribe for your pain."

"Never mind," said the Tortoise. "Let's run!
Will you bet me?" "Why, certainly." "Done!"
While the slow Tortoise creeps
Mr. Hare makes four leaps,
And then loafs around in the sun.

It seemed such a one-sided race,
To win was almost a disgrace.
So he frolicked about
Then at last he set out--
As the Tortoise was as nearing the place.

Too late! Though he sped like a dart,
The Tortoise was first. She was smart:
"You can surely run fast,"
She remarked. "Yet you're last.
It is better to get a good start."

The Heron Who Was Hard To Please.

A long-legged Heron, with long neck and beak,
Set out for a stroll by the bank of a creek.
So clear was the water that if you looked sharp
You could see the pike caper around with the carp.
The Heron might quickly have speared enough fish
To make for his dinner a capital dish.
But he was a very particular bird:
His food fixed "just so," at the hours he preferred.
And hence he decided 'twas better to wait,
Since his appetite grew when he supped rather late.
Pretty soon he was hungry, and stalked to the bank.
Where some pondfish were leaping--a fish of low rank.
"Bah, Bah!" said the Bird. "Sup on these? No--not I.
I'm known as a Heron: as such I live high."
Then some gudgeon swam past that were tempting to see,
But the Heron said hautily: "No--not for me.
For those I'd not bother to open my beak,
If I had to hang 'round come next Friday a week."
Thus bragged the big Bird. But he's bound to confess
That he opened his elegant beak for much less.
Not another fish came. When he found all else fail,
He was happy to happen upon a fat snail.

The Raven Who Would Rival The Eagle.

An Eagle swooped from out the sky,
And carried off a sheep.
A Raven seeing him, said: "I
Could do that too if I should try.
His meal comes mighty cheap."

Of all that well-fed flock was one
As fat as fat could be.
The Raven rose, and lit upon
Her back. She seemed to weigh a ton--
So very fat was she.

And, oh! Her wool was wondrous thick:
It would have made a mat.
The Raven's claws are caught, and stick!
He's played himself a pretty trick--
To fly with one so fat.

"Ba, ba!" "Caw, caw!" cry bird and beast.
The shepherd comes at last:
Sir Raven who would find a feast
Is from the woolly one released,
And in a cage kept fast.

The Miller, His Son And The Ass.

A Miller and Son once set out for the fair,
To sell a fine ass they had brought up with care;
And the way that they started made everyone stare.

To keep the Ass fresh, so the beast would sell dear
On a pole they slung him. It surely seemed queer:
He looked, with heels up, like some huge chandelier.

One person who passed them cried out in great glee.
"Was there anything ever so silly?" said he.
"Can you guess who the greatest Ass is of those three?"

The Miller at once put the brute on the ground;
And the Ass, who had liked to ride t'other way round,
Complained in language of curious sound.

No matter. The Miller now made his Son ride,
While he followed after or walked alongside.
Then up came three merchants. The eldest one cried;

"Get down there, young fellow! I never did see
Such manners:--a gray-beard walks where you should be.
He should ride, you should follow. Just take that from me!"

"Dear Sirs," quoth the Miller, "I'd see you content."
He climbed to the saddle; on foot the boy went...
Three girls passed. Said one: "Do you see that old Gent?
There he sits, like a bishop. I say it's a shame,
While that boy trudging after seems more than half lame."
"Little girl," said the Miller, "go back whence you came."

Yet this young creature so worked on his mind
That he wanted no woman to call him unkind:
And he said to his Son: "Seat yourself here--behind."

With the Ass bearing double they jogged on again,
And once more met a critic, who said: "It is plain
Only dunces would give their poor donkey such pain.
He will die with their weight: it's a shame and a sin.
For their faithful servant they care not a pin.
They'll have nothing to sell at the fair but his skin."

"Dear me!" said the Miller, "what am I to do?
Must I suit the whole world and the world's father, too?
Yet it must end some time--so I'll see the thing through."

Both Father and Son now decided to walk,
While the Ass marched in front with a strut and a stalk;
Yet the people who passed them continued to talk.

Said one to another: "Look there, if you please,
How they wear out their shoes, while their Ass takes his ease.
Were there ever, d'ye think, three such asses as these?"
Said the Miller: "You're right. I'm an Ass! It is true.
Too long have I listened to people like you.
But now I am done with the whole kit and crew.

"Let them blame me or praise me, keep silent or yell,
My goings and comings they cannot compel.
I will do as I please!"...So he did--and did well.THE PETER PATTER BOOK
  OF NURSERY RHYMES

  THE PETER PATTER BOOK
  OF NURSERY RHYMES

  _by_
  LEROY F. JACKSON

  _Pictures by_
  BLANCHE FISHER WRIGHT

  _To_
  ANDREW, PUDGE, AND BOBBY
  My first appreciative audience

  Copyright (C) 1918 by Rand McNally & Company.
  by Rand McNally & Co.
  All rights reserved.

  PETER PATTER _told them to me,
  All the little rimes,
  Whispered them among the bushes
  Half a hundred times.

  Peter lives upon a mountain
  Pretty near the sun,
  Knows the bears and birds and rabbits
  Nearly every one;
  Has a home among the alders,
  Bed of cedar bark,
  Walks alone beneath the pine trees
  Even when it's dark.

  Squirrels tell him everything
  That happens in the trees,
  Cricket in the gander-grass
  Sings of all he sees;
  Rimes from bats and butterflies,
  Crabs and waterfowl;
  But the best of all he gets
  From his Uncle Owl.

  Sometimes when its day-time,
  But mostly in the night,
  They sit beneath an oak tree
  And hug each other tight,
  And tell their rimes and riddles
  Where the catty creatures prowl--
  Funny little Peter Patter
  And his Uncle Owl._

  LIST OF THE RHYMES

                                            PAGE

  THE PETER PATTER BOOK

  [Illustration: --B. F. Wright--

  A COPPER DOWN A CRACK

  Jingle, jingle, Jack,
  A copper down a crack.
  Twenty men and all their wives,
  With sticks and picks and pocket knives,
  Digging for their very lives
  To get the copper back.

  I'M MUCH TOO BIG FOR A FAIRY

  I'm much too big for a fairy,
  And much too small for a man,
  But this is true:
  Whatever I do,
  I do it the best I can.

  DID YOU EVER PLAY TAG WITH A TIGER?

  Did you ever play tag with a tiger,
  Or ever play boo with a bear;
  Did you ever put rats in the rain-barrel
  To give poor old Granny a scare?

  It's fun to play tag with a tiger,
  It's fun for the bear to say "boo,"
  But if rats are found in the rain-barrel
  Old Granny will put you in too.

  THE BLUE SONG

  Hot mush and molasses all in a blue bowl--
  Eat it, it's good for you, sonny.
  'T will make you grow tall as a telephone pole--
  Eat it, it's good for you, sonny.

  Fresh fish and potatoes all on a blue plate--
  Eat it up smart now, my sonny.
  'T will make you as jolly and fat as Aunt Kate--
  Eat it up quick now, my sonny.

  Sweet milk from a nanny-goat in a blue cup--
  Drink it, it's good for you, sonny,
  'T will fill you, expand you, and help you grow up,
  And make a real man of you, sonny.

  HIPPITY HOP TO BED

  O it's hippity hop to bed!
  I'd rather sit up instead.
  But when father says "must,"
  There's nothing but just
  Go hippity hop to bed.

  AWAY TO THE RIVER

  Away to the river, away to the wood,
  While the grasses are green and the berries are good!
  Where the locusts are scraping their fiddles and bows,
  And the bees keep a-coming wherever one goes.

  Oh, it's off to the river and off to the hills,
  To the land of the bloodroot and wild daffodils,
  With a buttercup blossom to color my chin,
  And a basket of burs to put sandberries in.

  OUR LITTLE PAT

  Our little Pat
  Was chasing the cat
  And kicking the kittens about.
  When mother said "Quit!"
  He ran off to sit
  On the top of the woodpile and pout;
  But a sly little grin
  Soon slid down his chin
  And let all the sulkiness out.

  THE ANIMAL SHOW

  Father and mother and Bobbie will go
  To see all the sights at the animal show.
  Where lions and bears
  Sit on dining room chairs,
  Where a camel is able
  To stand on a table,
  Where monkeys and seals
  All travel on wheels,
  And a Zulu baboon
  Rides a baby balloon.
  The sooner you're ready, the sooner we'll go.
  Aboard, all aboard, for the Animal Show!

  TOMMY TRIMBLE

  Billy be nimble,
  Hurry and see
  Old Tommy Trimble
  Climbing a tree.
  He claws with his fingers
  And digs with his toes.
  The longer he lingers
  The slower he goes.

  DICKIE, DICKIE DEXTER

  Dickie, Dickie Dexter
  Had a wife and vexed her.
  She put him in a rabbit cage
  And fed him peppermint and sage--
  Dickie, Dickie Dexter.

  ON THE ROAD TO TATTLETOWN

  On the road to Tattletown
  What is this I see?
  A pig upon a pedestal,
  A cabbage up a tree,
  A rabbit cutting capers
  With a twenty dollar bill--
  Now if I don't get to Tattletown
  Then no one ever will.

  POLLY AND PETER

  Polly had some china cows
  And Peter had a gun.
  She turned the bossies out to browse,
  And Peterkin, for fun,
  Just peppered them with butter beans
  And blew them all to smithereens.

         *       *       *

  Now what will pretty Polly do
  For milk and cream and butter too?

  I WENT TO TOWN ON MONDAY

  I went to town on Monday
  To buy myself a coat,
  But on the way I met a man
  Who traveled with a caravan,
  And bought a billy-goat.

  I went to town on Tuesday
  And bought a fancy vest.
  I kept the pretty bucklestraps,
  Buttonholes and pocketflaps,
  And threw away the rest.

  I went to town on Thursday
  To buy a loaf of bread,
  But when I got there, goodness sakes!
  The town was full of rattlesnakes--
  The bakers all were dead.

  I went to town on Saturday
  To get myself a wife,
  But when I saw the lady fair
  I gnashed my teeth and pulled my hair
  And scampered for my life.

  WHERE ARE YOU GOING?

  Where are you going, sister Kate?
  I'm going to swing on the garden gate,
  And watch the fairy gypsies dance
  Their tim-tam-tum on the cabbage-plants--
  The great big one with the purple nose,
  And the tiny tad with the pinky toes.

  Where are you going, brother Ben?
  I'm going to build a tiger-pen.
  I'll get iron and steel and 'lectric wire
  And build it a hundred feet, or higher,
  And put ten tigers in it too,
  And a big wildcat, and--mebbe--you.

  Where are you going, mother mine?
  I'm going to sit by the old grapevine,
  And watch the gliding swallow bring
  Clay for her nest from the meadow spring--
  Clay and straw and a bit of thread
  To weave it into a baby's bed.

  Where are you going, grandma dear?
  I'm going, love, where the skies are clear,
  And the light winds lift the poppy flowers
  And gather clouds for the summer showers,
  Where the old folks and the children play
  On the warm hillside through the livelong day.

  CHRISTOPHER CRUMP

  Christopher Crump,
  All in a lump,
  Sits like a toad on the top of a stump.
  He stretches and sighs,
  And blinks with his eyes,
  Bats at the beetles and fights off the flies.

  PINKY, PINKY, PANG

  A tortoise sat on a slippery limb
  And played his pinky pang
  For a dog-fish friend that called on him,
  And this is what he sang:
  "Oh, the skies are blue,
  And I wait for you
  To come where the willows hang,
  And dance all night
  By the white moonlight
  To my pinky, pinky, pang!"

  TICK, TOCK

  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Forty 'leven by the clock.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Put your ear to Grandpa's ticker,
  Like a pancake, only thicker.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Catch a squirrel in half a minute,
  Grab a sack and stick him in it.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  Mister Bunny feeds on honey,
  Tea, and taters--ain't it funny?
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  When he goes to bed at night,
  Shoves his slippers out of sight;
  That is why Old Fox, the sinner,
  Had to go without his dinner.
  Tick, tock! Tick, tock!
  So says Grandpa's clock.

  UNDER THE WILLOW

  Put down your pillow under the willow,
  Hang up your hat in the sun,
  And lie down to snooze as long as you choose,
  For the plowing and sowing are done.

  Pick up your pillow from under the willow,
  And clamber out into the sun.
  Get a fork and a rake for goodness' sake,
  For the harvest time has begun.

  HIGH ON THE MANTEL

  High on the mantel rose a moan--
  It came from an idol carved in bone--
  "Oh, it's so lonesome here alone,
  With no one near to love me!"

  A cautious smile came over the face
  Of a pensive maid on a Grecian vase
  "Are you sure," she said, with charming grace,
  "There's no one near to love you?"

  BOOTS, BOOTS, BOOTS

  Buster's got a popper gun,
  A reg'lar one that shoots,
  And Teddy's got an engine
  With a whistler that toots.
  But I've got something finer yet--
  A pair of rubber boots.
  Oh, it's boots, boots, boots,
  A pair of rubber boots!
  I could walk from here to China
  In a pair of rubber boots.

  BUTTERFLY

  Butterfly, butterfly,
  Sit on my chin,
  Your wings are like tinsel,
  So yellow and thin.

  Butterfly, butterfly,
  Give me a kiss;
  If you give me a dozen
  There's nothing amiss.

  Butterfly, butterfly,
  Off to the flowers,--
  Wee, soulless sprite
  Of the long summer hours.

  BEELA BY THE SEA

  Catch a floater, catch an eel,
  Catch a lazy whale,
  Catch an oyster by the heel
  And put him in a pail.

  There's lots of work for Uncle Ike,
  Fatty Ford and me
  All day long and half the night
  At Beela by the sea.

  A MATTER OF TASTE

  "Thank you, dear," said the big black ant,
  "I'd like to go home with you now, but I can't.
  I have to hurry and milk my cows--
  The aphid herds on the aster boughs."
  And the ladybug said: "No doubt it's fine,
  This milk you get from your curious kine,
  But you know quite well it's my belief
  Your cows are best when turned to beef."

  TOMMY, MY SON

  "Tommy, my son," said the old tabby cat,
  "Go catch us some mice, and be sure that they're fat.
  There's one family lives in the carpenter's barn;
  They've made them a nest of the old lady's yarn.
  But the carpenter has a young cat of his own
  That is healthy and proud and almost full grown,
  And consider it, son, an eternal disgrace
  To come home at night with a scratch on your face."

  OH, SAID THE WORM

  "Oh," said the worm,
  "I'm awfully tired of sitting in the trees;
  I want to be a butterfly
  And chase the bumblebees."

  BUZZY BROWN

  Buzzy Brown came home from town
  As crazy as a loon,
  He wore a purple overcoat
  And sang a Sunday tune.

  Buzzy Brown came home from town
  As proud as he could be,
  He found three doughnuts and a bun
  A-growing on a tree.

  THE WIND

  The wind came a-whooping, down Cranberry Hill
  And stole an umbrella from, Mother Medill.

  It picked up a paper on Patterson's place
  And carried it clean to the Rockaby Race.

  And what was more shocking and awful than that,
  It blew the new feather off grandmother's hat.

  THE HOBO BAND

  The roads are good and the weather's grand,
  So I'm off to play in the Hobo Band;
  With a gaspipe flute and a cowhide drum
  I'm going to make the music come.
  With a toot, toot, toot, and a dum, dum, dum,
  Just hear me make the music come!

  A BEETLE ON A BROOMSTRAW

  A robin and a wren, as they walked along one night,
  Saw a big brown beetle on a broomstraw.
  Said the robin to the wren: "What a pretty, pretty sight--
  That big brown beetle on a broomstraw!"
  So they got their plates and knives,
  Their children and their wives,
  And gobbled up the beetle on the broomstraw.

  MULE THOUGHTS

  A silly little mule
  Sat on a milking stool
  And tried to write a letter to his father.
  But he couldn't find the ink,
  So he said: "I rather think
  This writing letters home is too much bother."

  A CANDLE, A CANDLE

  A candle, a candle
  To light me to bed;
  A pillow, a pillow
  To tuck up my head.
  The moon is as sleepy as sleepy can be,
  The stars are all pointing their fingers at me,
  And Missus Hop-Robin, way up in her nest,
  Is rocking her tired little babies to rest.
  So give me a blanket
  To tuck up my toes,
  And a little soft pillow
  To snuggle my nose.

  BAXTER

  Baxter had a billy-goat
  Wall-eyed and double jointed.
  He took him to the barber shop
  And had his head anointed.

  LODDY, GIN, AND ELLA ZANDER

  Loddy, Gin, and Ella Zander
  Rode to market on a gander;
  Bought a crane for half a dollar;
  Loddy led him by the collar.

  Mister Crane said: "Hi there, master,
  Can't you make your legs work faster?
  We can't poke along this way."
  Then he slowly flew away.
  Loddy held him fast, you bet,
  And he hasn't come home yet.

  AS I WAS GOING DOWN THE HILL

  As I was going down the hill
  In front of Missus Knapp's
  I saw the little Knapperines
  All in their winter wraps--
  Purple mitts and mufflers
  And knitted jersey caps.

  As I was coming back again
  In front of Missus Knapp's
  I saw that awful lady
  Give about a dozen slaps
  To every little Knapperine--
  I thought it was, perhaps,
  Because they gathered stickers
  In their knitted jersey caps.

  A LITTLE BOY RAN TO THE END OF THE SKY

  A little boy ran to the end of the sky
  With a rag and a pole and a gooseberry pie.
  He cried: "Three cheers for the Fourth of July!"
  With a rag and a pole and a gooseberry pie.

  He saw three little donkeys at play,
  He tickled their noses to make them bray,
  And he didn't come back until Christmas Day--
  With a rag and a pole and a gooseberry pie.

  DISCRETION

  A man with a nickel,
  A sword, and a sickle,
  A pipe, and a paper of pins
  Set out for the Niger
  To capture a tiger--
  And that's how my story begins.

  When he saw the wide ocean,
  He soon took a notion
  'T would be nicer to stay with his friends.
  So he traded his hat
  For a tortoise-shell cat--
  And that's how the chronicle ends.

  A BEETLE ONCE SAT ON A BARBERRY TWIG

  A beetle once sat on a barberry twig,
  And turned at the crank of a thingum-a-jig.
  Needles for hornets, nippers for ants,
  For the bumblebee baby a new pair of pants,
  For the grizzled old gopher a hat and a wig,
  The beetle ground out of his thingum-a-jig.

  THE THIEVES

  Tibbitts and Bibbitts and Solomon Sly
  Ran off one day with a cucumber pie.
  Tibbitts was tossed by a Kensington cow,
  Bibbitts was hanged on a brambleweed bough,
  And poor little Solomon--what do you think?
  Was drowned one dark night in a bottle of ink.

  UPON THE IRISH SEA

  Some one told Maria Ann,
  Maria Ann told me,
  That kittens ride in coffee cans
  Upon the Irish Sea.

  From quiet caves to rolling waves,
  How jolly it must be
  To travel in a coffee can
  Upon the Irish Sea!

  But when it snows and when it blows,
  How would you like to be
  A kitten in a coffee can
  Upon the Irish Sea?

  DUCKLE, DAISY

  Duckle, duckle, daisy,
  Martha must be crazy,
  She went and made a Christmas cake
  Of olive oil and gluten-flake,
  And set it in the sink to bake,
  Duckle, duckle, daisy.

  I'VE GOT A NEW BOOK

  I've got a new book from my Grandfather Hyde.
  It's skin on the cover and paper inside,
  And reads about Arabs and horses and slaves,
  And tells how the Caliph of Bagdad behaves.
  I'd not take a goat and a dollar beside
  For the book that I got from my Grandfather Hyde.

  THE CARROT AND THE RABBIT

  A carrot in a garden
  And a rabbit in the wood.
  Said the rabbit, "Beg your pardon,
  But you're surely meant for food;
  Though you've started in to harden,
  You may still be very good."

  HIPPY-HI-HOPPY

  Hippy-Hi-Hoppy, the big fat toad,
  Greeted his friends at a turn of the road.

  Said he to the snail:
  "Here's a ring for your tail
  If you'll go into town for my afternoon mail."

  Said he to the rat:
  "I have talked with the cat;
  And she'll nab you so quick you won't know where you're at."

  Said he to the lizard:
  "I'm really no wizard,
  But I'll show you a trick that will tickle your gizzard."

  Said he to the lark:
  "When it gets fairly dark
  We'll chase the mosquitoes in Peek-a-Boo Park."

  Said he to the owl:
  "If it were not for your scowl
  I'd like you as well as most any wild fowl."

  Said he to the wren:
  "You're tiny, but then
  I'll marry you quick, if you'll only say when."

  UP ON THE GARDEN GATE

  Set me up on the garden gate
  And put on my Sunday tie;
  I want to be there
  With a round-eyed stare
  When the circus band goes by.

  Give me a bag of suckerettes
  And give me a piece of gum,
  Then I'll get down
  And treat the clown,
  And give the monkey some.

  'MOST ANY CHIP

  'Most any chip
  Will do for a ship,
  If only the cargo be
  Golden sand
  From the beautiful land
  Of far-off Arcady.
  For faith will waft
  The tiny craft
  O'er Fancy's shining sea.

  A MOON SONG

  Who hung his hat on the moon?
  The owl in his bubble balloon.
  One bright summer night
  He sailed out of sight,
  And, hooting like Lucifer, hung in delight
  His three-cornered hat on the moon.

  WHAT MAKES YOU LAUGH?

  "What makes you laugh, my little lass,
  From morning until noon?"
  "I saw a dappled donkey
  Throwing kisses at the moon."

  "What makes you cry, my little lass,
  And get your eyes so red?"
  "I saw a cruel gardener cut
  A poor old cabbage head."

  "What makes you run, my little lass?
  You're almost out of breath."
  "A pumpkin made a face at me,
  And scared me half to death."

  TIMMY O'TOOLE

  When Timmy O'Toole
  Was going to school
  He picked up a package of gum.
  He treated the preacher
  And Sunday-school teacher,
  And gave a policeman some.

  A MAN CAME FROM MALDEN

  A man came from Malden to buy a blue goose.
  And what became of the gander?
  He went and got tipsy on blackberry juice,
  And that was the end of the gander.

  BARON BATTEROFF

  The mighty baron, Batteroff,
  Raised a whale in a watering trough.
  When the whale grew large and fat
  He ate the baron's brindle cat.
  But pussy, once inside the whale,
  Began to tickle with her tail.
  This the monster could not stand,
  And spewed her out upon dry land.
  That night, when all was fine as silk
  And she had supped her bread and milk,
  She grinned and told old Batteroff
  How she got the whale to cough.

  SIX LITTLE SALMON

  I sing a funny song from away out west,
  Of six little salmon with their hats on;
  How they all left home--but I forget the rest--
  The six little salmon with their hats on.

  TO GARRY ON THE TOOT-TOOT

  Oh, I want to go to Garry
  On the toot-toot, toot-toot,
  You and I together
  On the toot-toot, toot-toot.
  Go run and ask your mother
  For some kind of cake or other,
  And a bit of cotton wadding
  For your ball-suit.
  Get your bobber and a bat,
  And be back as quick as scat,
  For we've got to go to Garry
  On the toot-toot.

  DOUBBLEDOON

  Bobbin rode a rocking-horse
  'Way down to Doubbledoon,
  He told his little sister
  He'd be back that afternoon.
  But maybe after all she didn't
  Understand him right,
  For he wasn't back again
  Till the middle of the night.

  And what did little Bobbin see
  'Way down at Doubbledoon?
  He saw a crazy Arab
  Throwing bubbles at the moon,
  A monkey making faces
  And a rabbit in a rage,
  A parrot shouting "Murder!"
  From the ceiling of his cage.

  At last a yellow jumping-jack,
  A camel, and a coon,
  Chased poor little Bobbin
  All the way from Doubbledoon.

  THE PARTY

  Billy Bluebird had a party
  In an elder tree,
  But the little black-eyed smarty
  Didn't ask us to his party
  Neither you nor me.

  This is what they had for dinner,
  For I peeked to see:
  Apple seeds and beetle finner,
  And for drink the little sinner
  Gave them tansy tea.

  But there came an awful clatter
  From that elder tree,
  When he served them on a platter
  Hopper-hash and brick-dust batter
  Trimmed with celery!

  All the folks were hale and hearty,
  Happy as could be;
  And that little black-eyed smarty
  Left out of his funny party
  Only you and me.

  I'VE GOT A YELLOW PUPPY

  I've got a yellow puppy,
  And I've got a speckled hen,
  I've got a lot of little
  Spotted piggies in a pen.
  I've got a gun that used to shoot,
  Another one that squirts,
  I've got some horehound candy
  And a pair of woolen shirts.
  I've got a little rubber ball
  They use for playing golf,
  And mamma thinks that's maybe why
  I've got the whooping-cough.

  DOCTOR McSWATTLE

  Doctor McSwattle
  Filled up a bottle
  With vinegar, varnish, and rum.
  And offered a swallow
  To all who would follow
  The call of his trumpet and drum.
  It's good, I am told,
  For a cough or a cold;
  It's good for a pain in your thumb.

  COLUMBUS

  Columbus sailed over the ocean blue
  To find the United States.
  In three small ships he carried his crew,
  And none of the three were mates.

  He found a land in the western seas,
  And Indians galore,
  With jabbering parrots in the trees,
  And sharks along the shore.

  He filled his pockets with sparkling stones
  And took to the mighty main,
  With a couple of slaves, some nuts and cones
  For the glorious king of Spain.

  Now this is the tale Columbus told,
  And most of the tale is true,
  How he crossed the seas, a sailor bold,
  In fourteen-ninety-two.

  TERRIBLE TIM

  Haven't you heard of Terrible Tim!
  Well, don't you get in the way of him.
  He eats lions for breakfast
  And leopards for lunch,
  And gobbles them down
  With one terrible crunch.
  He could mix a whole city
  All up in a mess,
  He could drink up a sea
  Or an ocean, I guess.
  You'd better be watching for Terrible Tim,
  And run when you first get your peepers on him.

  WHAT'S THE USE?

  "What's the use,"
  Said the goose,
  "To swim like a frog,
  When you go just as far
  If you float on a log?"

  "Why should I,"
  Said the fly,
  "Suck an old apple-core,
  When there's sugar and fruit
  In the grocery store?"

  "It's but right,"
  Said the kite,
  "That I follow the wind.
  What's a fellow to do
  If he hasn't a mind?"

  "You'll allow,"
  Said the cow,
  "That I'm really no thief,
  When I turn all the clover
  I steal, into beef."

  "Come again,"
  Said the hen,
  "On some other fine day.
  Don't think 'cause I cackle
  I always must lay."

  ALL ABOARD FOR BOMBAY

  All aboard for Bombay,
  All aboard for Rome!
  Leave your little sisters
  And your loving aunts at home.

  Bring a bit of bailing wire,
  A pocketful of nails,
  And half a dozen wiener-wursts
  For every man that sails.

  Tell Terry Tagg, when you go by,
  Be sure to bring his dog.
  All aboard for Bombay
  On a floating cedar log!

  WATER

  There's water in the rain barrel,
  And water in the well,
  There's lots of water in the pond
  Where Hannah Hawkins fell.

  There's water in the ocean,
  And water in the skies,
  And when a fellow blubbers
  He gets water in his eyes.

  But in the Barca desert
  Where the hippodoodles play,
  The water in the rivers
  Just dries up and blows away.

  OLD MOLLY IS LOWING

  Old Molly is lowing and lowing
  'Way down in the old meadow lot.
  I've given her water and clover,
  And all of the apples I've got;
  But she won't eat a thing that I give her,
  And never drinks even a sup,
  For they've taken her baby to market
  And some one has eaten it up.
  I'd just like to go to the city
  And cut them all up into halves
  And feed them to sharks and to lions--
  Those people that eat little calves.

  SNOWFLAKES

  The snowflakes are falling by ones and by twos;
  There's snow on my jacket, and snow on my shoes;
  There's snow on the bushes, and snow on the trees--
  It's snowing on everything now, if you please.

  DIPPY-DIPPY-DAVY

  Dippy-Dippy-Davy,
  Half the Royal Navy
  In the dampness and the dark
  Was driving off a savage shark
  To Dippy-Dippy-Davy.

  WHEN I'M AS RICH
  AS UNCLE CLAUS

  When I'm as rich as Uncle Claus,
  With whiskers on my chin,
  I'm going to have a great big house
  To put my people in.

  I'll never let them wander out
  Or ride with me to town;
  They'll come a-running when I shout
  And tremble when I frown.

  I'll have some men in soldier tents,
  A pirate and his mate,
  And wildcats all around the fence,
  And mad dogs on the gate.

  RINKY-TATTLE

  Rinky-tattle, rinky-tattle,
  Rinky-tattle--who?
  Little Tommy Taylor
  Is a rinky-tattle too.

  TWENTY LITTLE SNOWFLAKES

  Twenty little snowflakes climbing up a wire.
  "Now, listen," said their mother, "don't you climb up any higher.
  The sun will surely catch you, and scorch you with his fire."
  But the naughty little snowflakes didn't mind a word she said,
  Each tried to clamber faster than his fellow just ahead;
  They thought that they'd be back in time enough to go to bed.
  But they found out that their mother wasn't quite the dunce they
        thought her,
  The sun bobbed up--remember this, my little son and daughter--
  And turned those twenty snowflakes into twenty drops of water.

  SLIPPERY SLIM

  Slippery Slim, a garter snake,
  Leaned against a garden rake
  And smiled a sentimental smile
  At Tilly Toad, on the gravel pile,
  Till that bashful miss was forced to hop
  And hide her face in a carrot-top.

  THE FREIGHTER

  Through fog and rain
  I run my train
  Wherever the track is laid,
  And over the road
  I carry a load
  Whenever the freight is paid.

  A kaddy of tea
  For Genessee,
  For Troy an empty crate,
  A man in brown
  For Uniontown
  To help them celebrate.

  NO ONE AT HOME

  No one at home in the hen-house,
  And no one at home in the barn,
  Old Brindle has gone to the neighbor's
  To borrow a skein of brown yarn,
  To borrow yarn for the darning
  Of socks for her wee spotted calf--

  The little rollicking rascal
  Has never enough by half.
  And Speckle is down by the willow
  Washing her chicks in the lake,
  While old Daddy Cockle is lying
  Abed with a bad toothache.

  PATTERS AND TATTERS

  Patters had a gallant band,
  An army made of clay.
  But Tatters took the garden hose
  And washed them all away.

  CROWN THE KING WITH CARROT TOPS

  Crown the king with carrot tops,
  Dress him in sateen,
  Give him lots of licorice drops,
  With suckers in between.

  For he's a king with lots of power
  And awful, awful fierce,
  He kills a pirate every hour
  And washes in his tears.

  He rides a charger ten feet high,
  A dashing, dappled gray;
  Has ginger pop and lemon pie
  For breakfast every day.

  So get a royal canopy,
  The finest ever seen,
  And whiskers for his majesty,
  And tresses for the queen.

  THE CANADA GOOSE

  A Canada goose
  On the South Palouse
  Is singing her summer song.
  Her words are wise,
  And she greets the skies
  With a voice like a steamer gong:
  "If you harbor your wealth
  And keep your health,
  You'll always be rich and strong."

  HIPPERTY, CLICKERTY, CLACKERTY, BANG

  Hipperty, clickerty, clackerty, bang,
  Get in a corner as fast as you can!
  The sideboard is tipsy, the table is mad,
  The chairs have lost all the sense that they had.
  So hipperty, clickerty, clackerty, bang,
  Get in a corner as fast as you can!

  SONNY

  A sailor gave his sonny
  Nearly half a pint of money
  And sent him out to buy a ton of coal;
  But he met a poor old miser
  Who told him it were wiser
  To bury all his money in a hole.

  A sailor gave his sonny
  Nearly half a pint of money
  And told him he should buy a suit of clothes;
  But he saw a pretty maiden
  With all kinds of posies laden,
  And he gave her all his money for a rose.

  Then the sailor gave his sonny
  Nearly half a pint of money
  To buy a little garden and a house;
  But he found him the next day,
  In a shop on Yesler Way,
  A-buying cheese and crackers for a mouse.

  THE STOVE

  A stove is a thing that gets awfully hot,
  And fries up your meat, or whatever you've got.
  It's made out of iron and hinges and screws,
  And filled up with shakers, and dampers, and flues.
  It's not very long and it's not very wide;
  It's got black'ning on top and ashes inside.

  THE THUNDER BABY

  Have you heard of the Thunder Baby
  Way up in the big blue sky?
  You've seen his cradle, maybe,
  And maybe you've heard him cry.

  Most of the time he's sleeping,
  Rolled up in a big white cloud,
  But when he's awake and hungry
  He bellows awfully loud.

  And when he's crying, sometimes
  You can hear his teardrops fall
  With a patter, patter, patter,
  Against the garden wall.

  But when he's madder'n mischief,
  He rolls, and growls, and spits,
  And kicks the clouds all forty ways,
  And gives the weather fits.

  Then tears come down in bucketfuls,
  And children dance for joy,
  Till the sun comes out and soundly spanks
  Her Thunder Baby Boy.

  HINKY, PINKY, PEARLY EARL

  Hinky, pinky, pearly earl,
  Twenty nobles and a churl;
  Some are fat and some are lean,
  One in red and one in green--
  Prior, priest, and pearly earl,
  Twenty nobles and a churl.

  TIPSY TOM

  Tipsy Tom, the naughty fellow,
  Dressed his wife in pink and yellow,
  Set her in an apple tree,
  And said: "Now catch a bumblebee."

  JOLLY JINKS

  Jolly Jinks, the sailor man,
  Went to sea in an oyster can.
  But he found the water wet,
  Fishes got into his net,
  So he pulled his boat to shore
  And vowed he'd sail the seas no more.

  TRANSFORMATION

  Auntie Ellen found her poodle--
  Mercy! Goodness sake!--
  Playing with the mully-wumps
  Down along the lake.

  And when she called him tenderly
  He didn't want to come;
  It took her over half an hour
  To get the rascal home.

  She washed him well with shaving-soap,
  Pumice stone and lye,
  She showered him and she scoured him
  And she hung him up to dry.

  And now he sits there quite serene,
  The sweetest poodle ever seen.

  THE THIEF CHASE

  Bricks and bones!
  Sticks and stones!
  I chased a thief through twenty zones.

  I found his hat
  On Ararat,
  And hurried on as quick as scat.

  In a day or two
  I found his shoe
  Where he had sailed for Timbuktu.

  I met the goat
  That ate his coat
  Upon the road to Terre Haute.

  At last all worn
  And quite forlorn
  I chased him up the Matterhorn.

  SOMEBODY

  Somebody give me a peanut,
  Somebody give me a pear;
  I want to go down to the circus
  And feed all the animals there.

  CONSOLATION

  A dime and a dollar
  Took me by the collar
  And whispered this word in my ear:

  "We must leave you to-morrow,
  But prithee don't sorrow,
  We'll come back to see you next year."

  THE ROBIN AND THE SQUIRREL

  Said the Robin to the Squirrel,
  "How d' you do?"
  Said the Squirrel to the Robin,
  "How are you?"
  "Oh, I've got some cherry pies,
  And a half a dozen flies,
  And a kettle full of beetles on to stew."

  Said the Squirrel to the Robin,
  "How d' you do?"
  Said the Robin to the Squirrel,
  "How are you?"
  "I've a nest that's nice and neat,
  And a wife that can't be beat,
  And I'm every bit as happy now as you."

  THE KING HAD A PLATTER

  The King had a platter
  Of brisket and batter,
  The Prince had a Bellington bun,
  The Queen had a rose
  To put to her nose
  As soon as the dinner was done.

  RAIN

  The lightning split the sky in two
  And set the clouds to leaking
  Just as dear old Pastor Brown
  Began his Sunday speaking.

  He told about the awful rain
  That fell in Noah's day,
  And one by one the happy smiles
  Began to fade away.

  In half an hour the people all
  Put on their rubber coats,
  And when he finished everyone
  Was out and building boats.

  OLD FATHER McNETHER

  Old Father McNether
  He sorts out the weather
  And takes what he pleases, I'm told,
  With a big turkey-feather
  He mixes the weather,
  And makes it blow hot and blow cold.

  JERRY WAS A JOKER

  Jerry was a joker.
  He carried off the poker
  And dressed it up from head to heel
  In clover-tops and orange-peel
  And fed it bones and barley meal.
  Poor old Rusty Poker!

  KING KOKEM

  King Kokem lay snoozing upon his brass bed--
  Oh, play an old tune on your fiddle!
  With shoes on his feet, and a crown on his head--
  Oh, tune up your rusty old fiddle!

  He dreamed of a land where the lions were tame,
  Where they fried their lamb-chops on a griddle,
  Where they called all the parrots and monkeys by name--
  Oh, play us a tune on your fiddle!

  He dreamed of a sea filled with raspberry pop,
  With a cocoanut isle in the middle,
  Where the stones and the boulders had icing on top--
  Go strike up a tune on your fiddle!

  He dreamed of a sky where the moonbeams all danced
  While a comet was telling a riddle,
  Where the stars and the planets and sun-dogs all pranced
  While the moon played his fiddle de diddle.

  OLD MISSUS SKINNER

  Old Missus Skinner
  Had dumplings for dinner
  And sat on a very high stool;
  When she cut thru the hide
  There was nothing inside,
  Which I'm sure was not often the rule.

  OH, MOTHER

  Oh, Mother, Oh, Mother,
  Come quickly and see,
  The house and the farmyard
  Have gone on a spree.

  The pig's in the pantry,
  The chickens are out,
  The parrot is perched
  On the tea kettle spout.

  And mercy, Oh, mercy,
  Oh, what shall I do?
  A rat has run off
  With my very best shoe.

  CELLA REE AND TOMMY TO

  Two funny friends that you all know
  Are Cella Ree and Tommy To.
  About as queer as friends can be,
  Are Tommy To and Cella Ree.
  For hours they sit there grim and stable
  Side by side upon the table.
  Tom is red and Cella pale,
  His blushes are of no avail;
  She sits, in spite of his endeavor,
  As firm and undisturbed as ever,
  A funny pair, you must agree,
  This Tommy To and Cella Ree.

  IF I WERE RICHER

  If I were richer
  I'd buy a pitcher
  With scenery on it.
  'Jolica ware--
  Storks here and there,
  And a funny affair
  With ladies on it.

  In half a minute
  I'd mix up in it
  A wonderful drink--
  Peppermint, ice,
  Lemons and spice--
  Taste pretty nice,
  What do you think?

  THE ARMY OF THE QUEEN

  O the Army of the Queen,
  The Army of the Queen,
  Some are dressed in turkey-red
  And some are dressed in green;
  A colonel and a captain,
  A corporal in between,
  Their guns are filled with powder
  And their swords are bright and keen;
  So toot your little trumpet
  For the Army of the Queen.

  ROMULUS

  Romulus, Romulus,
  Father of Rome,
  Ran off with a wolf
  And he wouldn't come home.

  When he grew up
  He founded a city
  With an eagle, a bear,
  And a tortoise-shell kitty.

  THE HERO

  My dad was a soldier and fought in the wars,
  My grandfather fought on the sea,
  And the tales of their daring and valor of course
  Put the sand and the ginger in me.

  I'm not scared of tigers or any wild beast,
  I could fight with a lion all right,
  I wouldn't be 'fraid of a bear in the least--
  Excepting, perhaps, in the night.

  But sister, she's skeery as skeery can be,
  She's even afraid of the bark of a tree.

  PENSIVE PERCY

  Percy when a little boy
  Was quiet as a mouse,
  He never set the barn afire
  Nor battered down the house.

  He used to sit for hours and hours
  Just gazing at the moon,
  And feeding little fishes
  Sarsaparilla from a spoon.

  MOON, O MOON IN THE EMPTY SKY

  Moon, O Moon in the empty sky,
  Why do you swing so low?
  Pretty moon with the silver ring
  And the long bright beams where the fairies cling,
  Where do you always go?

  I go to the land of the Siamese,
  Ceylon and the Great Plateau,
  Over the seas where Sinbad sailed,
  Where Moses crossed and Pharaoh failed,--
  There's where I always go.

  THE RAG-MAN

  "Rag-man, rag-man,
  Taggy, taggy, rag-man,
  Tell us what you've got there in your sack."

  "Oh--it's full of rimes and riddles,
  Jingles, jokes, and hi-de-diddles--
  This bundle that I carry on my back."

  "O tell us, funny rag-man,
  Grinny, skinny rag-man,
  Where did you pick up your funny rimes?"

  "Some were dancing with corn-flowers,
  Some were hiding in church-towers,
  And sprinkled helter-skelter by the chimes."

  "Rag-man, rag-man,
  Nice old taggy rag-man,
  Sing us just one jingle, tingle song."

  "Why, my dears, I've got a plenty,
  Sing you one? I'll sing you twenty--
  I've been hoping you would ask me all along."

  WHENEVER I GO OUT TO WALK

  Whenever I go out to walk,
  All the geese begin to gawk;
  And when I start to wander back,
  All the ducks begin to quack.

  A FREE SHOW

  Mister McCune
  Can whistle a tune,

  Old Uncle Strong
  Can sing us a song,

  Benjamin Biddle
  Can play on the fiddle,

  Captain O'Trigg
  Can dance us a jig,

  And I, if I'm able,
  Will tell you a fable.

  BILLY BUMPKINS

  Heigho, Billy Bumpkins,
  How d' you grow your pumpkins?
  "At six o'clock I sows 'em,
  At ten o'clock I hoes 'em,
  An' jes before I goes to bed
  I puts 'em in the pumpkin shed."

  Tell us, Billy Bumpkins,
  How d' you sell your pumpkins?
  "I lends 'em to the ladies,
  I gives 'em to the babies,
  An' trades a hundred for a kiss
  To any pretty little miss."

  BLUE FLAMES AND RED FLAMES

  Blue flames and red flames
  In a world all dark;
  Blue flames and red flames,
  And a tiny spark
  Hurrying to heaven, lest it should be late;
  Lest the cautious seraphim close the shining gate,
  And leave the little wanderer forevermore to fly
  Like an orphan angel through the endless sky.

  TIMOTHY GRADY

  Poor little Timothy Grady
  Screwed up his face at a lady,
  And, jiminy jack!
  It wouldn't come back.
  The louder he hollered
  The tighter it grew,
  His eyes are all red
  And his lips are all blue.
  Oh, mercy me, what in the world will he do?
  Poor little Timothy Grady!

  CAPTAIN TICKLE AND HIS NICKEL

  Captain Tickle had a nickel
  In a paper sack,
  He threw it in the river
  And he couldn't get it back.
  Captain Tickle spent his nickel
  For a rubber ball,
  And when he cut it open
  There was nothing there at all.

  GRANDMOTHER GRUNDY

  O Grandmother Grundy,
  Now what would you say
  If the katydids carried
  Your glasses away--

  Carried them off
  To the top of the sky
  And used them to watch
  The eclipses go by?

  NEEDLES AND PINS

  Needles and pins, hooks and eyes!
  I saw a doughnut in the skies.
  Flipperjinks the circus clown
  Climbed a tree and got it down.

  A TOE RIME

  Tassle is a captain,
  Tinsel is a mayor,
  Tony is a baker-boy
  With 'lasses in his hair,
  Tipsy is a sailor,
  With anchors on his chest,
  And Tiny is the baby boy
  Who bosses all the rest.

  HARRY HOOKER

  Harry Hooker had a book
  And couldn't find a teacher.
  But still he managed very well,
  He climbed a box and rang a bell
  And turned into a preacher.

  JELLY JAKE AND BUTTER BILL

  Jelly Jake and Butter Bill
  One dark night when all was still
  Pattered down the long, dark stair,
  And no one saw the guilty pair;
  Pushed aside the pantry-door
  And there found everything galore,--
  Honey, raisins, orange-peel,
  Cold chicken aplenty for a meal,
  Gingerbread enough to fill
  Two such boys as Jake and Bill.
  Well, they ate and ate and ate,
  Gobbled at an awful rate
  Till I'm sure they soon weighed more
  Than double what they did before.
  And then, it's awful, still it's true,
  The floor gave way and they went thru.
  Filled so full they couldn't fight.
  Slowly they sank out of sight.
  Father, Mother, Cousin Ann,
  Cook and nurse and furnace man
  Fished in forty-dozen ways
  After them, for twenty days;
  But not a soul has chanced to get
  A glimpse or glimmer of them yet.
  And I'm afraid we never will--
  Poor Jelly Jake and Butter Bill.

  CUT UP A CAPER

  Cut up a caper,
  You've got a paper
  And I've got a widget of string.
  You be the army
  And let nothing harm me
  For I am the captain and king.

  EAT, EAT, EAT

  Here come the sweet potatoes
  And here's the Sunday meat,
  I guess we must be ready now
  To eat, eat, eat.

  I'm going to have the nicey plate
  And Daddy's leather seat,
  And wear my patent-leather shoes
  To eat, eat, eat.

  My Daddy's talking all about
  The war, and some old fleet,
  I wonder if he never, never,
  Never wants to eat.

  We're going to have some apple-cake,
  We're going to have a treat.
  O hurry, hurry, Daddy,
  Let us eat, eat, eat.

  HETTY HUTTON

  Hetty Hutton,
  Here's a button,
  Sew it on your dress.

  Willie Waller,
  Here's a dollar,
  Maybe more or less.

  Mister Shuster,
  Here's a rooster,
  Put him in a pen.

  Mister Saxon,
  Get an ax an'
  Let him out again.

  A BIG, FAT POTATO

  A big, fat potato lay down on a clod
  In the shade of some burdock and tall goldenrod,
  And he dreamed he were king of the whole garden plot,
  With a palace and throne, and a crown with a lot
  Of jewels and diamonds and gold till it shone
  Like the front of a show when the lights are turned on.
  He had to be minded by all of the plants;
  When he whistled the radishes knew they must dance;
  When he tooted his horn the cucumbers must sing
  To a vegetable crowd gathered round in a ring.
  He made all the cabbages stand in a row
  While a sunflower instructed them just how to grow;
  The bright yellow pumpkins he painted light blue;
  Took the clothes off the scare-crow and made him buy new.
  He strutted and sputtered and thought it was grand
  To be king and commander o'er all the wide land.
  But at last he woke up with an awful surprise
  And found a blind mole kicking sand in his eyes.

  A BUNDLE OF HAY

  A bundle of hay
  From Baffin's Bay,
  A johnny-cake from Rome,
  A man and a mule
  From Ultima Thule
  To carry the cargo home.

  PETER, POPPER

  Peter, popper, dopper, Dan,
  Catch a moonbeam if you can;
  Climb a cedar ten feet high
  And pick the planets from the sky.
  You're a wonder, little man--
  Peter, popper, dopper, Dan.

  OLD FATHER ANNUM

  Old Father Annum on New Year's Day
  Picked up his bag of months and years,
  Thrust in his hand in a careless way,
  And pulled a wee fellow out by the ears.
  "There you are," said he to the waiting crowd,
  "He's as good as any I have in my pack.
  I never can tell, but I hope to be proud
  Of the little rascal when I come back."

  THE TIPPANY FLOWER

  O what will you take for a tippany flower,
  And what will you take for a pansy?
  I'll take a smile for the tippany flower,
  And a kiss for the pretty pansy.

  HERE COMES A CABBAGE

  Here comes a cabbage with a bonnet on its head,
  A pretty purple bonnet with a bow of blue and red;
  And here comes a bottle with a collar 'round its neck,
  A handsome linen collar, too, without a spot or speck;
  Next comes a meat-saw, his job is biting beef,
  And according to the cleaver he has gold in all his teeth;
  And last of all there comes along, amid the ringing cheers,
  A princely Indian corn-stalk with rings in both his ears.

  PLENTY

  There are plenty feathers on a hen
  And prickers on a rose,
  There is plenty roaring in a den
  Of lions, goodness knows;

  There are plenty fishes in the lake
  And islands in the sea;
  There are plenty raisins in this cake
  For even you and me.

  THE RUNAWAYS

  A pipe and a spoon and a tenpenny nail
  Stole a tin dishpan and went for a sail.
  But the cook he grew curious,
  Fussy, and furious;
  Gathered his trappings, and went on their trail.
  He found them that night in a pitiful plight,
  And sent them all home on the ten o'clock mail.

  THE SALESMAN

  Hi! Hi! Who will buy
  A wee little cloud for the pretty blue sky?
  Some are purple, some are red,
  And all are soft as a feather bed.
  Hi! Little children, won't any one buy
  One little cloud for the pretty blue sky?

  A RACE, A RACE TO MOSCOW

  A race, a race to Moscow,
  Before the close of day!
  A race, a race to Moscow,
  A long, long way!
  First comes a butterfly a-riding on a frog,
  Next comes a water rat a-floating on a log;
  A caterpillar on the fence, a hopper in the hay--
  Who'll get to Moscow before the close of day?

  A PRINCE FROM PEPPERVILLE

  A prince came down from Pepperville
  In satin and in lace,
  He wore a bonnet on his head
  And whiskers on his face.

  And when he came to Battleburg
  This is what befell:
  He gave the king and cabinet
  A half a peanut shell.

  BOATS

  Hitch up your cattle
  And drive to Seattle
  To see all the boats come in,--
  From Kibi and Kobi
  And Panama Dobi
  And some from the Islands of Myn.
  They're bringing us rices
  And cocoa and spices
  And pineapples done up in tin,
  And maybe Aunt Dinah
  Will come back from China
  If ever the boats get in.

  PRETTY THINGS

  Pretty poppies,
  Pretty trees,
  Pretty little lettuce-leaves,
  Pretty pebbles,
  Red and brown,
  Pretty floating thistle-down.
  Pretty baby,
  Curly head,
  Standing in a pansy-bed,
  Pretty clouds
  All white and curled--
  O the great, big pretty world!

  DID YOU EVER?

  Did you ever go to the watering trough
  And watch the sparrows drink?
  Did you ever go to Potter's pond
  And see the divers sink?
  Did you ever steal to the barn at night
  And watch the hoot-owls think?

  HOOTEM, TOOTEM, CLEAR THE TRACK

  Hootem, tootem, clear the track!
  I caught a coon on Kamiak!
  Colonel Clapp and Uncle Rome
  Have hired a hack to bring it home.

  DOCTOR DRAKE

  On a hummock by the lake
  Stands the home of Doctor Drake,
  Poor old doctor, how he works!
  Week by week he never shirks--

  Pulling teeth for guinea-fowl,
  Soothing puppies when they howl,
  Whittling out a hickory peg
  For a gander's broken leg,

  Giving medicine away
  About a hundred times a day,
  Linseed oil and elder-bark
  To a croaking meadowlark,

  Nasty, bitter yarrow-tea
  To a tipsy bumble-bee,
  A poultice made of plantain leaves
  To cure a rabbit with the heaves.

  Fever, colic, cramp, or stitch,
  Kitten-croup or beaver's-itch,
  Any kind of pain or ache
  Is cured by dear, old Doctor Drake.

  BABIES

  Come to the land where the babies grow,
  Like flowers in the green, green grass.
  Tiny babes that swing and crow
  Whenever the warm winds pass,
  And laugh at their own bright eyes aglow
  In a fairy looking-glass.

  Come to the sea where the babies sail
  In ships of shining pearl,
  Borne to the west by a golden gale
  Of sun-beams all awhirl;
  And perhaps a baby brother will sail
  To you, my little girl.

  TWENTY THIEVES FROM ALBION

  Twenty thieves from Albion,
  All with butcher knives,
  Coming on the dead run,
  Fighting for their lives.

  See the man from our town.
  In a fancy vest,
  Knocking all the big ones down,
  Chasing all the rest.

  AS I CAME OUT OF GRUNDY GREET

  As I came out of Grundy Greet
  Four cats were marching down the street

  One was long and gray and thin
  With lots of whiskers on his chin,

  And one was round and sleek and fat
  (He must have been a butcher's cat).

  One was dapper, slight, and frail,
  With bells and tassels on his tail,

  And one had starey yellow eyes
  Almost as big as pumpkin pies.

  These four came marching down the street
  As I came out of Grundy Greet.

  [Illustration]Animal
Children

_The Friends of the
Forest and the Plain._

By
Edith Brown Kirkwood

Drawings by
M.T. Ross

Published by

P.F. Volland & Co.

Chicago

P.F. Volland & Company
All Rights Reserved

_Ninth Edition_

_To all children who find
friends in the Forest or on
the Plain, and especially to
Samuel and to Gilbert, this
book is lovingly dedicated._

FOREWORD

When God made the world
He planted the flowers and
the grass and the trees to
make things beautiful to
look upon; He swung the sun and
the moon and the stars in the sky
to make things bright; He put the
birds in the trees to fill the air with
music, and when He made the
animals we believe that he intended
them to be the friends of man.

Why, isn't the dog the best playmate
that a boy can have? Did
any one ever hear of Towser or Gyp
being false friends? And the soft,
dainty, cunning bit of a fluffy ball
of a kitten who comes rubbing its
downy sides against the tiny girl's
skirts begging for a return caress,
is there a play-fellow more lovable?
And the squirrel who comes begging
at the window for nuts; the bunny
rabbit who snuggles its delicate nose,
trustingly, under the little boy's
chin; the horse who has been man's
friend in times of trouble and of
peace, bearing his burdens or scampering
with him over the fields and
roads in play; the cow who has sent
her good milk to the babies of all
time; the sheep and the goats who
have given of their wool to keep us
warm,--we love them all dearly.

In this volume we have tried to
make friends and playmates of all
of the animals. You have loved the
"Flower Children" and the "Bird
Children" whom the publisher already
has made your playmates.
We feel that you are going to be
just as happy to know the "Animal
Children." Therefore we add to
"The Little Cousins of the Field
and Garden" and "The Little Playmates
of the Flower Children," this
volume--"The Friends of the Forest
and the Plain."

EDITH BROWN KIRKWOOD
M.T. Ross

ANIMAL CHILDREN

Sometimes I am so sorry that my papa is a king,
It's really most annoying and hurts like everything
To have the little girls and boys all want to run away,
For if I am a Lion prince, I'm a baby, anyway!

Some jungle boys, by mischief made quite bold,
Once took the baby Tiger, so we're told,
And in broad stripes they smeared his coat so fine,
And 'round his neck they hung a "Fresh Paint" sign.

This monkey thought the Leopard's spots
Were pasted on for polka-dots,
He asked her how much it would cost
New ones to buy if those were lost.

In her red and white gown Miss Weasel's so pert
We are very afraid she's a gay little flirt;
She is fearful of no one--beast, reptile or man,
Just winks and cries gaily: "Catch me, if you can."

This dapper young chappy is Dude Ocelot,
With coat trimmed in many a dash and a spot;
He's graceful and elegant, sly, too, as well,
Just what he'll do next no one ever can tell.

The chetah is a great big cat
But very quick, for all of that,
She's cunning but she's gentle, too,
And if you're good she's good to you.

The little Bobcat and Canadian Lynx
Just must be related (so everyone thinks).
Except for their ears they're alike as two pins,
And look every whit as if they were twins.

A dainty, fastidious man is Lord Otter
Who can live just as well on land as in water,
He'll eat but the flakiest part of a fish,
And this he considers his favorite dish.

"It really is a bother to be sought by everyone"
The vain young Ermine boasted. "Why, it keeps me on the run
To get away from kings and queens and peers and ladies great--
It truly gets me all fussed up and in a dreadful state."

Young ferret, detective, said: "I'll show you where
To track the bold rabbit right into his lair."
Then he never saw bunny right under his eyes,
But went swaggering off looking wondrously wise.

"Now, Johnnie, my child," said wise Mamma Sable,
"When you see a trap run as fast as you're able,
Or else, ere you know it, your skin will be gone
As a beautiful fur for some lady to don."

Mother opossum says she'd like to ask
Just why other mothers should find it a task
To care for one baby. Why, here she has four,
And there's plenty of room on her tail for some more!

Mr. and Mrs. Mongoose are popular as can be,
The reason being very plain, as you will all agree,
They are cunning and affectionate and clean and very nice,
They kill all snakes and insects and naughty rats and mice.

It must be very easy for the busy Beaver mother
To feed the Beaver sister and her little Beaver brother,
For when they beg: "We're hungry, give us something to eat, please!"
She sends them off to nibble at the bark of the big trees.

The puma is a bandit who'll not meet you face to face
But waits to spring upon you from some well-hidden place.
He'll strike you when your back is turned, but away he's sure to fly
If you should turn to look him right squarely in the eye.

Lemur stays in bed all day
And waits until the night to play;
That's why his soft feet make no sound
And why his eyes are big and round.

The bowery boy of the woods is young Mink,
His coat is so lovely one never would think
That'd he do naughty things, but we've often been told
He is tricky and wicked and saucy and bold.

"I'm not so very big around and not great as to length,
But one thing Peccaries have learned--in numbers there is strength.
Now, if you do not bother me I will not bother you,
But all my friends and family will help me if you do."

who is this boy in clothes so neat?
Young Spring-bok, Africa's athlete.
He lives up in the mountains tall,
And as a jumper beats them all.

The Long-Eared Bat and the Flying Fox and the Flying Squirrel, too,
Decided to give an aero-meet just to show what they could do.
So they formed a club and went around and invited everyone,
Then up they flew and did their stunts, and had a lot of fun.

She is dainty as snowdrops that fall from the skies,
Is this dear little Kitten with bright, shiny eyes
And velvety ears and pretty pink nose
And lovely white suit of soft, furry clothes.

Baby raccoon takes all his food and goes straight to the pool,
He eats not one small bite of it until it's wet and cool.
Now, although you may think this strange and stop to wonder why,
He, no doubt, thinks it just as queer for you to like yours dry.

The greatest of travelers that one can meet
Is the little Deer-mouse with the pretty white feet;
North, south, east or west she will go at her will,
And never, no never, is known to keep still.

The baby zebra ne'er should roam
So very far away from home,
Lest someone, thinking her striped gown
Was candy-stick, might eat her down.

"I'm stopping for a moment just to say 'How-do-you-do?'
I've just been decorated with this ribbon of deep blue
Because of all the gracefulness with which I trot and prance--
No wonder that you give Sir Horse your most admiring glance!"

This tale is not so very new,
And, no doubt, has been told to you,
But Donkey went to school to play,
And now he sits dressed up this way.

Here is the only baby who never makes a noise
(Which must be very puzzling to little girls and boys).
Yet the Giraffe is happy 'though he cannot shout or sing,
For with that great long neck of his he can reach anything.

The tapir feeds on leaves and fruit
He's very, very hard to suit,
For boys who don't like bread and meat
Have to find other things to eat.

He has climbed to the top of a rocky throne
To look down on a land once so proudly his own,
His people are scattered, he has no place to go,
He is weary and sad, poor King Buffalo.

"Lemonade, lemonade," the bold monkey cried,
"It's only five cents, and it's cooling beside."
Miss Camel just sniffed and tossed high her head,--
"I drink only every nine days, sir," she said.

Milk or meat or leather for shoes,--
Almost anything that we choose,--
We'll find the good Cow gives with joy
To every nice little girl and boy.

I wonder where the names come from (I'm sure that you do, too).
For instance, there's the animal that has been called the Gnu.
His race is just as strange, too, for no one seems to know
Just what he is--an antelope, horse, bull or buffalo.

Big moose came boldly from behind the tall trees,
And said in loud voice: "Who called, if you please?
I'm ready to meet any one who says 'Fight,'
But we'll come in the open and do the thing right."

I am not sure I'd care to meet
This Big Horn Goat upon the street.
Not when his eyes and smile and air
Just seem to shout: "Come, if you dare!'

Brave soldier ibex stalks before the mountain fortress high,
And watches eagerly to note a stranger passing by.
"Who's there?" he calls, and to his friends he whistles the alarm,
And off they go to mountain tops where they are safe from harm.

The chamois lives in the mountains high,
He's ever and ever and ever so spry;
He leaps and he plays with never a fall--
I'm sure that you never could do that at all.

Billy Goat and Nanny Goat went out one day to tea.
They promised Mother Goat they'd be good as they could be,
But on the way they passed some goats who cried: "Oh, see the dude!"
And then they had to go back home for Billy got real rude.

Her coat is soft as velvet, of a lovely yellow-brown,
With a bit of fawn for trimming and a lining white as down.
Her eyes are large and kindly, she is gentle, too, as well,
You would love a little playmate as sweet as Miss Gazelle.

A sturdy young American is Rocky Mountain Goat
With big, strong horns upon his head, and shaggy, furry coat;
He loves to scramble over rocks or leap a mountain brook,
And should you chase him he will fly into his hidden nook.

"We reindeer come straight from your own Santa Claus,
In our gallop of joy we never will pause;
We eat from the mountain-tops, drink from the dells,
And use for our skipping-ropes merry sleigh-bells."

A large and handsome personage is the Most Noble Yak,
His mantle is a fringe of hair that drapes his sides and back;
He's very, very grand, indeed, when he stands up, you see--
In fact, he's just as noble as a noble ought to be.

When young Mrs. Kangaroo goes for a hop,
To call or to market or, perhaps, out to shop,
She has no nice carriage where baby can ride,
So he creeps in a pocket that hangs at her side.

He does not care when the sleet comes down, or the chilly wind blows strong,
For he wears a hat that is made of horn and a fur coat, warm and long.
He never gets frostbitten toes 'though in snow and ice he plays;
Now being a Muskox can't be bad in the long, cold winter days!

"The very best I have, sir, fine and a whole yard wide,
It wears, and has no bother of a right and wrong side;
I'm sure she'd like a dress of it--it will not spot or pull."
Then Miss Alpaca added: "I know--it's my own wool."

This dear little Sheep has lost Bo-Peep,
She wandered away as he lay asleep,
He has found her bonnet and shepherd's crook,
But for little Bo-Peep in vain does he look.

Young Miss Rhinoceros gave a beach party;
She greeted her friends with a welcome most hearty.
They laughed and they joked and they swam in the sea,
And the party was gay, as a party should be.

She comes from Spain, this proud, proud Dame,
Mistress Merino is her name.
Her wool weaves into dress goods rare,
Her skin makes gloves the ladies wear.

Merry guinea pigs one day
Went out in the fields to play.
Daisy smiled and wished that they
Would never, never go away.

Here is a Sister Piggy and a Brother Piggy, too,
The story they are telling here would not apply to you,
For selfish little sisters who make their brothers cry
Do not belong in houses but with piggies in the sty.

Now here's a little lady who seems a wee bit shy,
Or is it that a teardrop is trembling in her eye?
Well, I am sure that you or I would make an awful fuss
If we should have to have her name--"Miss Hippopotamus."

In animal land, as everywhere, there lives a Mr. Boar
Who never is contented unless he holds the floor;
His fellows all may frown at him but he cannot refrain
From pushing into everything--he's so selfish and so vain.

Mother and father and little Miss Bear
Went out for a walk and a bit of fresh air,
Not through the dark woods (the old tale to repeat)
But in their best clothes, right down the front street.

When little Miss Polar Bear goes out to skate,
She never is bothered by having to wait
Until mother wraps her all snugly in fur,
For those are the clothes that she carries with her!

Just look about and see if you
Can find a friend who's quite as true
As this old Doggie that you see
A-smiling here at you and me.

I'm just a little Puppy and good as good can be,
And why they call me naughty, I'm sure I cannot see,
I've only carried off one shoe and torn the baby's hat
And chased the ducks and spilled the milk--there's nothing bad in that!

The mandrill looks so very queer
I'm glad he lives way off from here;
He's purple, blue, red, black and brown,
I'm sure he is the jungle clown.

The baby gorilla, of the family called Ape,
Is very like you in size and in shape,
But he lives in the jungle with black hair for clothes
And he gets very naughty the older he grows.

This cute little brother and sister you see
Seated cosily high on the limb of a tree
Are the Marmoset twins, whose appealing round eyes
Look from flower-like faces in wond'ring surprise.

"I've climbed up here to smile at you and, oh, what do you think?
I've scattered master's papers and upset all of his ink,
But then if little Monkeys always were so very good
They'd not be little monkeys who just can't act as they should."

He is so very lazy that he is even loath
To walk upon his own feet--this funny boy named Sloth.
He swings upon the branches from morning until night,
And eats the leaves about him with laziest delight.

He works on tunnels night and day,
This Marmot boy from far away.
When winter comes then in he creeps,
And there until the spring he sleeps.

The woodchuck resides in a hole in the ground,
He is surly and cross, and he never is found
Out in the bright sunlight unless it's to see
If he can't make more winter for you and for me.

This naughty boy just eats and eats until he is a sight,
He eats until he cannot hold another tiny bite.
Of course, he's just an animal--they call him Wolverine--
But does he make you think of boys that you have ever seen?

Old Mr. Walrus climbs out of the deep
For a breath of air and an hour of sleep.
You will note that he isn't much on looks
But his skin we make into pocket-books.

He sits on the top of a gay wooden stand,
He stands on his head or he shakes your hand,
He dances a jig or he trumps a chant--
This jolly old circus Elephant.

Naughty, naughty Squirrel baby, just as mother has you dressed
In your ribbons and your laces and your go-to-meeting best,
Then to run and grab an apple and get yourself all mussed!
Are you not afraid that mother will be very, very fussed?

To market, to market, with baskets of eggs,
Jack Rabbit goes hurrying on his long legs;
He'll buy him some colors--red, green, yellow, blue,
And when Easter comes 'round you know what he'll do.

Chipmunk is a jolly lad,
Always friendly--never sad,
Shares with friends his wheat grains yellow,
He's a genuine good fellow.

The coney lives in Palestine
But he is very seldom seen.
You see he is so small and shy
He hides when folks are passing by.

They call this boy the Coati,
His name is strange, and so is he.
He laps to drink, digs with his snout.
On ground or trees he runs about.

The cute little dogs that live on the prairie
Were having a party and making quite merry,
When Big Dog, on watch, heard a noise and called "Hush!"
And into their holes went the guests in a rush!

What do you suppose is in Gray Wolf's pack
He carries so stealthily over his back?
Some chickens, a lamb and an old mother hen
He has stolen to hide away in his den.

His manners are so charming and his eyes so very bright,
I do believe that we might call young Fox a gallant knight;
But then when he is cunning and just a little pert,
I'm not so sure but we should call this same young fox a flirt.

We just want to ask if you ever have seen a
Much dirtier boy than this little Hyena?
He has played in the street at making mud pies
Till nothing is clean save the whites of his eyes.

Beau coyote sings a nightly tune
To his lady fair in the big, round moon.
She smiles and throws moonbeams to him
And he serenades till her light is dim.

Tommie and Tillie Badger went out in the field to play.
Said Tommie: "Here, I'll teach you--put down your head this way,
Then toss your heels into the air and give a little twirl--
You can't help turning somersaults although you are a girl."

Miss Leopard Spermophilus, with her high-sounding name,
Says just to be called "Gopher" is really a shame,
And she's right here to tell you--if this knowledge you should lack--
She's the only one who wears the stars and stripes upon her back.

Doggy barked and said: "What fun
To make that Porcupine girl run;
Girls for boys to tease were meant."--
But girls with pins are different.

Sir Knight Armadillo, from tail tip to nose
In armor that's sure to bring terror to foes,
Goes forth with his weapons to his battle ground,
And looks like a pineapple walking around.

Away in Australia the Echidna stays.
He is noted because of his strange little ways;
His claws are so sharp that in manner quite tragic,
When frightened he sinks in the ground as by magic.

Miss Ant Eater's mouth is so dreadfully small
It scarce seems it could be a real mouth at all,
And her long, furry tail is her blanket at night,
It covers and tucks her in all snug and tight.

This queer little Mole has a star for a nose
Just the shade of the pink in a dew-wet rose.
He lives down in the ground where 'tis always like night,
So perhaps his star nose is to twinkle for light.

Here we have Mr. Duckbill of no little fame;
His mouth, you will see, is what gives him his name.
He can walk, swim or burrow and (so we have heard)
His wife, Mrs. Duckbill, lays eggs like a bird.

Such a dainty little person in her coat of pale, clear gray,
Is this maiden, Miss Chinchilla, and the hunter-folks all say
She is so clean she's exquisite and never dreams of harm
When they go to take her silken fur which helps to keep her warm.

The circus fat lady is big Mrs. Whale
With her very large head and her very long tail,
And her ears and her eyes almost covered from sight
In the folds of thick skin that wraps her up tight.

INDEX

Yak                               51Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 13646-h.htm or 13646-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/3/6/4/13646/13646-h/13646-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/3/6/4/13646/13646-h.zip)

A BOOK OF NONSENSE

by

EDWARD LEAR

With All the Original Pictures and Verses

There was an Old Derry down Derry, who loved to see little folks
  merry;
    So he made them a Book, and with laughter they shook
      At the fun of that Derry down Derry.

                 Original Dedication.

                       TO THE
 GREAT-GRANDCHILDREN, GRAND-NEPHEWS, AND GRAND-NIECES
           OF EDWARD, 13TH EARL OF DERBY,
          THIS BOOK OF DRAWINGS AND VERSES

     (The greater part of which were originally
         made and composed for their parents.)

               Is Dedicated by the Author,
                                          EDWARD LEAR.

       London, 1862.

    There was an Old Man with a nose,
    Who said, "If you choose to suppose
    That my nose is too long, you are certainly wrong!"
    That remarkable Man with a nose.

    There was a Young Person of Smyrna,
    Whose Grandmother threatened to burn her;
    But she seized on the Cat, and said, "Granny, burn that!
    You incongruous Old Woman of Smyrna!"

    There was an Old Man on a hill,
    Who seldom, if ever, stood still;
    He ran up and down in his Grandmother's gown,
    Which adorned that Old Man on a hill.

    There was an Old Person of Chili,
    Whose conduct was painful and silly;
    He sate on the stairs, eating apples and pears,
    That imprudent Old Person of Chili.

    There was an Old Man with a gong,
    Who bumped at it all the day long;
    But they called out, "Oh, law! you're a horrid old bore!"
    So they smashed that Old Man with a gong.

    There was an Old Man of Kilkenny,
    Who never had more than a penny;
    He spent all that money in onions and honey,
    That wayward Old Man of Kilkenny.

    There was an Old Man of Columbia,
    Who was thirsty, and called out for some beer;
    But they brought it quite hot, in a small copper pot,
    Which disgusted that man of Columbia.

    There was an Old Man in a tree,
    Who was horribly bored by a Bee;
    When they said, "Does it buzz?" he replied, "Yes, it does!
    It's a regular brute of a Bee."

    There was an Old Lady of Chertsey,
    Who made a remarkable curtsey;
    She twirled round and round, till she sank underground,
    Which distressed all the people of Chertsey.

    There was a Young Lady whose chin
    Resembled the point of a pin;
    So she had it made sharp, and purchased a harp,
    And played several tunes with her chin.

    There was an Old Man with a flute,--
    A "sarpint" ran into his boot!
    But he played day and night, till the "sarpint" took flight,
    And avoided that Man with a flute.

    There was a Young Lady of Portugal,
    Whose ideas were excessively nautical;
    She climbed up a tree to examine the sea,
    But declared she would never leave Portugal.

    There was an Old Person of Ischia,
    Whose conduct grew friskier and friskier;
    He danced hornpipes and jigs, and ate thousands of figs,
    That lively Old Person of Ischia

    There was an Old Man of Vienna,
    Who lived upon Tincture of Senna;
    When that did not agree, he took Camomile Tea,
    That nasty Old Man of Vienna.

    There was an Old Man in a boat,
    Who said, "I'm afloat! I'm afloat!"
    When they said, "No, you ain't!" he was ready to faint,
    That unhappy Old Man in a boat.

    There was an Old Person of Buda,
    Whose conduct grew ruder and ruder,
    Till at last with a hammer they silenced his clamor.
    By smashing that Person of Buda.

    There was an Old Man of Moldavia,
    Who had the most curious behavior;
    For while he was able, he slept on a table,
    That funny Old Man of Moldavia.

    There was an Old Person of Hurst,
    Who drank when he was not athirst;
    When they said, "You'll grow fatter!" he answered "What matter?"
    That globular Person of Hurst.

    There was an Old Man of Madras,
    Who rode on a cream-colored Ass;
    But the length of its ears so promoted his fears,
    That it killed that Old Man of Madras.

    There was an Old Person of Dover,
    Who rushed through a field of blue clover;
    But some very large Bees stung his nose and his knees,
    So he very soon went back to Dover.

    There was an Old Person of Leeds,
    Whose head was infested with beads;
    She sat on a stool and ate gooseberry-fool,
    Which agreed with that Person of Leeds.

    There was an Old Person of Cadiz,
    Who was always polite to all ladies;
    But in handing his daughter, he fell into the water,
    Which drowned that Old Person of Cadiz.

    There was an Old Man of the Isles,
    Whose face was pervaded with smiles;
    He sang "High dum diddle," and played on the fiddle,
    That amiable Man of the Isles.

    There was an Old Person of Basing,
    Whose presence of mind was amazing;
    He purchased a steed, which he rode at full speed,
    And escaped from the people of Basing.

    There was an Old Man who supposed
    That the street door was partially closed;
    But some very large Rats ate his coats and his hats,
    While that futile Old Gentleman dozed.

    There was an Old Person whose habits
    Induced him to feed upon Rabbits;
    When he'd eaten eighteen, he turned perfectly green,
    Upon which he relinquished those habits.

    There was an Old Man of the West,
    Who wore a pale plum-colored vest;
    When they said, "Does it fit?" he replied, "Not a bit!"
    That uneasy Old Man of the West.

    There was an Old Man of Marseilles,
    Whose daughters wore bottle-green veils:
    They caught several Fish, which they put in a dish,
    And sent to their Pa at Marseilles.

    There was an Old Man of the Wrekin,
    Whose shoes made a horrible creaking;
    But they said, "Tell us whether your shoes are of leather,
    Or of what, you Old Man of the Wrekin?"

    There was a Young Lady whose nose
    Was so long that it reached to her toes;
    So she hired an Old Lady, whose conduct was steady,
    To carry that wonderful nose.

    There was a Young Lady of Norway,
    Who casually sat in a doorway;
    When the door squeezed her flat, she exclaimed, "What of that?"
    This courageous Young Lady of Norway.

    There was an Old Man of Apulia,
    Whose conduct was very peculiar;
    He fed twenty sons upon nothing but buns,
    That whimsical Man of Apulia.

    There was an Old Man of Quebec,--
    A beetle ran over his neck;
    But he cried, "With a needle I'll slay you, O beadle!"
    That angry Old Man of Quebec.

    There was a Young Lady of Bute,
    Who played on a silver-gilt flute;
    She played several jigs to her Uncle's white Pigs:
    That amusing Young Lady of Bute.

    There was an Old Person of Philoe,
    Whose conduct was scroobious and wily;
    He rushed up a Palm when the weather was calm,
    And observed all the ruins of Philoe.

    There was an Old Man with a poker,
    Who painted his face with red ochre.
    When they said, "You 're a Guy!" he made no reply,
    But knocked them all down with his poker.

    There was an Old Person of Prague,
    Who was suddenly seized with the plague;
    But they gave him some butter, which caused him to mutter,
    And cured that Old Person of Prague.

    There was an Old Man of Peru,
    Who watched his wife making a stew;
    But once, by mistake, in a stove she did bake
    That unfortunate Man of Peru.

    There was an Old Man of the North,
    Who fell into a basin of broth;
    But a laudable cook fished him out with a hook,
    Which saved that Old Man of the North.

    There was an Old Person of Troy,
    Whose drink was warm brandy and soy,
    Which he took with a spoon, by the light of the moon,
    In sight of the city of Troy.

    There was an Old Person of Mold,
    Who shrank from sensations of cold;
    So he purchased some muffs, some furs, and some fluffs,
    And wrapped himself well from the cold.

    There was an Old Person of Tring,
    Who embellished his nose with a ring;
    He gazed at the moon every evening in June,
    That ecstatic Old Person of Tring.

    There was an Old Man of Nepaul,
    From his horse had a terrible fall;
    But, though split quite in two, with some very strong glue
    They mended that man of Nepaul.

    There was an Old Man of the Nile,
    Who sharpened his nails with a file,
    Till he cut off his thumbs, and said calmly, "This comes
    Of sharpening one's nails with a file!"

    There was an Old Man of th' Abruzzi,
    So blind that he couldn't his foot see;
    When they said, "That's your toe," he replied, "Is it so?"
    That doubtful Old Man of th' Abruzzi.

    There was an Old Man of Calcutta,
    Who perpetually ate bread and butter;
    Till a great bit of muffin, on which he was stuffing,
    Choked that horrid Old Man of Calcutta.

    There was an Old Person of Rhodes,
    Who strongly objected to toads;
    He paid several cousins to catch them by dozens,
    That futile Old Person of Rhodes.

    There was an Old Man of the South,
    Who had an immoderate mouth;
    But in swallowing a dish that was quite full of Fish,
    He was choked, that Old Man of the South.

    There was an Old Man of Melrose,
    Who walked on the tips of his toes;
    But they said, "It ain't pleasant to see you at present,
    You stupid Old Man of Melrose."

    There was an Old Man of the Dee,
    Who was sadly annoyed by a Flea;
    When he said, "I will scratch it!" they gave him a hatchet,
    Which grieved that Old Man of the Dee.

    There was a Young Lady of Lucca,
    Whose lovers completely forsook her;
    She ran up a tree, and said "Fiddle-de-dee!"
    Which embarrassed the people of Lucca.

    There was an Old Man of Coblenz,
    The length of whose legs was immense;
    He went with one prance from Turkey to France,
    That surprising Old Man of Coblenz.

    There was an Old Man of Bohemia,
    Whose daughter was christened Euphemia;
    But one day, to his grief, she married a thief,
    Which grieved that Old Man of Bohemia.

    There was an Old Man of Corfu,
    Who never knew what he should do;
    So he rushed up and down, till the sun made him brown,
    That bewildered Old Man of Corfu.

    There was an Old Man of Vesuvius,
    Who studied the works of Vitruvius;
    When the flames burnt his book, to drinking he took,
    That morbid Old Man of Vesuvius.

    There was an Old Man of Dundee,
    Who frequented the top of a tree;
    When disturbed by the Crows, he abruptly arose,
    And exclaimed, "I'll return to Dundee!"

    There was an Old Lady whose folly
    Induced her to sit in a holly;
    Whereon, by a thorn her dress being torn,
    She quickly became melancholy.

    There was an Old Man on some rocks,
    Who shut his Wife up in a box:
    When she said, "Let me out," he exclaimed, "Without doubt
    You will pass all your life in that box."

    There was an Old Person of Rheims,
    Who was troubled with horrible dreams;
    So to keep him awake they fed him with cake,
    Which amused that Old Person of Rheims.

    There was an Old Man of Leghorn,
    The smallest that ever was born;
    But quickly snapt up he was once by a Puppy,
    Who devoured that Old Man of Leghorn.

    There was an Old Man in a pew,
    Whose waistcoat was spotted with blue;
    But he tore it in pieces, to give to his Nieces,
    That cheerful Old Man in a pew.

    There was an Old Man of Jamaica,
    Who suddenly married a Quaker;
    But she cried out, "Oh, lack! I have married a black!"
    Which distressed that Old Man of Jamaica.

    There was an Old Man who said, "How
    Shall I flee from this horrible Cow?
    I will sit on this stile, and continue to smile,
    Which may soften the heart of that Cow."

    There was a Young Lady of Troy,
    Whom several large flies did annoy;
    Some she killed with a thump, some she drowned at the pump,
    And some she took with her to Troy.

    There was a Young Lady of Hull,
    Who was chased by a virulent Bull;
    But she seized on a spade, and called out, "Who's afraid?"
    Which distracted that virulent Bull.

    There was an Old Person of Dutton,
    Whose head was as small as a button;
    So to make it look big he purchased a wig,
    And rapidly rushed about Dutton.

    There was an Old Man who said, "Hush!
    I perceive a young bird in this bush!"
    When they said, "Is it small?" he replied, "Not at all;
    It is four times as big as the bush!"

    There was a Young Lady of Russia,
    Who screamed so that no one could hush her;
    Her screams were extreme,--no one heard such a scream
    As was screamed by that Lady of Russia.

    There was a Young Lady of Tyre,
    Who swept the loud chords of a lyre;
    At the sound of each sweep she enraptured the deep,
    And enchanted the city of Tyre.

    There was an Old Person of Bangor,
    Whose face was distorted with anger;
    He tore off his boots, and subsisted on roots,
    That borascible Person of Bangor.

    There was an Old Man of the East,
    Who gave all his children a feast;
    But they all ate so much, and their conduct was such,
    That it killed that Old Man of the East.

    There was an Old Man of the Coast,
    Who placidly sat on a post;
    But when it was cold he relinquished his hold,
    And called for some hot buttered toast.

    There was an Old Man of Kamschatka,
    Who possessed a remarkably fat Cur;
    His gait and his waddle were held as a model
    To all the fat dogs in Kamschatka.

    There was an Old Person of Gretna,
    Who rushed down the crater of Etna;
    When they said, "Is it hot?" he replied, "No, it's not!"
    That mendacious Old Person of Gretna.

    There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who sat on a Horse when he reared;
    But they said, "Never mind! you will fall off behind,
    You propitious Old Man with a beard!"

    There was an Old Man of Berlin,
    Whose form was uncommonly thin;
    Till he once, by mistake, was mixed up in a cake,
    So they baked that Old Man of Berlin.

    There was an Old Man of the West,
    Who never could get any rest;
    So they set him to spin on his nose and his chin,
    Which cured that Old Man of the West.

    There was an Old Person of Cheadle
    Was put in the stocks by the Beadle
    For stealing some pigs, some coats, and some wigs,
    That horrible person of Cheadle.

    There was an Old Person of Anerley,
    Whose conduct was strange and unmannerly;
    He rushed down the Strand with a Pig in each hand,
    But returned in the evening to Anerley.

    There was a Young Lady of Wales,
    Who caught a large Fish without scales;
    When she lifted her hook, she exclaimed, "Only look!"
    That ecstatic Young Lady of Wales.

    There was a Young Lady of Welling,
    Whose praise all the world was a-telling;
    She played on the harp, and caught several Carp,
    That accomplished Young Lady of Welling.

    There was an Old Person of Tartary,
    Who divided his jugular artery;
    But he screeched to his Wife, and she said, "Oh, my life!
    Your death will be felt by all Tartary!"

    There was an Old Man of Whitehaven,
    Who danced a quadrille with a Raven;
    But they said, "It's absurd to encourage this bird!"
    So they smashed that Old Man of Whitehaven.

    There was a Young Lady of Sweden,
    Who went by the slow train to Weedon;
    When they cried, "Weedon Station!" she made no observation,
    But thought she should go back to Sweden.

    There was an Old Person of Chester,
    Whom several small children did pester;
    They threw some large stones, which broke most of his bones,
    And displeased that Old Person of Chester.

    There was an Old Man of the Cape,
    Who possessed a large Barbary Ape;
    Till the Ape, one dark night, set the house all alight,
    Which burned that Old Man of the Cape.

    There was an Old Person of Burton,
    Whose answers were rather uncertain;
    When they said, "How d' ye do?" he replied, "Who are you?"
    That distressing Old Person of Burton.

    There was an Old Person of Ems
    Who casually fell in the Thames;
    And when he was found, they said he was drowned,
    That unlucky Old Person of Ems.

    There was a Young Girl of Majorca,
    Whose Aunt was a very fast walker;
    She walked seventy miles, and leaped fifteen stiles,
    Which astonished that Girl of Majorca.

    There was a Young Lady of Poole,
    Whose soup was excessively cool;
    So she put it to boil by the aid of some oil,
    That ingenious Young Lady of Poole.

    There was an Old Lady of Prague,
    Whose language was horribly vague;
    When they said, "Are these caps?" she answered, "Perhaps!"
    That oracular Lady of Prague.

    There was a Young Lady of Parma,
    Whose conduct grew calmer and calmer:
    When they said, "Are you dumb?" she merely said, "Hum!"
    That provoking Young Lady of Parma.

    There was an Old Person of Sparta,
    Who had twenty-five sons and one "darter;"
    He fed them on Snails, and weighed them in scales,
    That wonderful Person of Sparta.

    There was an Old Man on whose nose
    Most birds of the air could repose;
    But they all flew away at the closing of day,
    Which relieved that Old Man and his nose.

    There was a Young Lady of Turkey,
    Who wept when the weather was murky;
    When the day turned out fine, she ceased to repine,
    That capricious Young Lady of Turkey.

    There was an Old Man of Aosta
    Who possessed a large Cow, but he lost her;
    But they said, "Don't you see she has run up a tree,
    You invidious Old Man of Aosta?"

    There was a Young Person of Crete,
    Whose toilette was far from complete;
    She dressed in a sack spickle-speckled with black,
    That ombliferous Person of Crete.

    There was a Young Lady of Clare,
    Who was madly pursued by a Bear;
    When she found she was tired, she abruptly expired,
    That unfortunate Lady of Clare.

    There was a Young Lady of Dorking,
    Who bought a large bonnet for walking;
    But its color and size so bedazzled her eyes,
    That she very soon went back to Dorking.

    There was an Old Man of Cape Horn,
    Who wished he had never been born;
    So he sat on a Chair till he died of despair,
    That dolorous Man of Cape Horn.

    There was an old Person of Cromer,
    Who stood on one leg to read Homer;
    When he found he grew stiff, he jumped over the cliff,
    Which concluded that Person of Cromer.

    There was an Old Man of the Hague,
    Whose ideas were excessively vague;
    He built a balloon to examine the moon,
    That deluded Old Man of the Hague.

    There was an Old Person of Spain,
    Who hated all trouble and pain;
    So he sate on a chair with his feet in the air,
    That umbrageous Old Person of Spain.

    There was an Old Man who said, "Well!
    Will _nobody_ answer this bell?
    I have pulled day and night, till my hair has grown white,
    But nobody answers this bell!"

    There was an Old Man with an Owl,
    Who continued to bother and howl;
    He sat on a rail, and imbibed bitter ale,
    Which refreshed that Old Man and his Owl.

    There was an Old Man in a casement,
    Who held up his hands in amazement;
    When they said, "Sir, you'll fall!" he replied, "Not at all!"
    That incipient Old Man in a casement.

    There was an Old Person of Ewell,
    Who chiefly subsisted on gruel;
    But to make it more nice, he inserted some Mice,
    Which refreshed that Old Person of Ewell.

    There was an Old Man of Peru.
    Who never knew what he should do;
    So he tore off his hair, and behaved like a bear,
    That intrinsic Old Man of Peru.

    There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who said, "It is just as I feared!--
    Two Owls and a Hen, four Larks and a Wren,
    Have all built their nests in my beard."

    There was a Young Lady whose eyes
    Were unique as to color and size;
    When she opened them wide, people all turned aside,
    And started away in surprise.

    There was a Young Lady of Ryde,
    Whose shoe-strings were seldom untied;
    She purchased some clogs, and some small spotty Dogs,
    And frequently walked about Ryde.

    There was a Young Lady whose bonnet
    Came untied when the birds sate upon it;
    But she said, "I don't care! all the birds in the air
    Are welcome to sit on my bonnet!"Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 13648-h.htm or 13648-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/3/6/4/13648/13648-h/13648-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/3/6/4/13648/13648-h.zip)

MORE NONSENSE

Pictures, Rhymes, Botany, etc.

by

EDWARD LEAR

CONTENTS

  NONSENSE BOTANY

  ONE HUNDRED NONSENSE PICTURES AND RHYMES

  TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES

INTRODUCTION

In offering this little book--the third of its kind--to the public, I am
glad to take the opportunity of recording the pleasure I have received at
the appreciation its predecessors have met with, as attested by their wide
circulation, and by the universally kind notices of them from the Press. To
have been the means of administering innocent mirth to thousands, may
surely be a just motive for satisfaction, and an excuse for grateful
expression.

At the same time, I am desirous of adding a few words as to the history of
the two previously published volumes, and more particularly of the first or
original "Book of Nonsense," relating to which many absurd reports have
crept into circulation, such as that it was the composition of the late
Lord Brougham, the late Earl of Derby, etc.; that the rhymes and pictures
are by different persons; or that the whole have a symbolical meaning,
etc.; whereas, every one of the Rhymes was composed by myself, and every
one of the Illustrations drawn by my own hand at the time the verses were
made. Moreover, in no portion of these Nonsense drawings have I ever
allowed any caricature of private or public persons to appear, and
throughout, more care than might be supposed has been given to make the
subjects incapable of misinterpretation: "Nonsense," pure and absolute,
having been my aim throughout.

As for the persistently absurd report of the late Earl of Derby being the
author of the "First Book of Nonsense," I may relate an incident which
occurred to me four summers ago, the first that gave me any insight into
the origin of the rumor.

I was on my way from London to Guildford, in a railway carriage,
containing, besides myself, one passenger, an elderly gentleman: presently,
however, two ladies entered, accompanied by two little boys. These, who had
just had a copy of the "Book of Nonsense" given them, were loud in their
delight, and by degrees infected the whole party with their mirth.

"How grateful," said the old gentleman to the two ladies, "all children,
and parents too, ought to be to the statesman who has given his time to
composing that charming book!"

(The ladies looked puzzled, as indeed was I, the author.)

"Do you not know who is the writer of it?" asked the gentleman.

"The name is 'Edward Lear,'" said one of the ladies.

"Ah!" said the first speaker, "so it is printed; but that is only a whim of
the real author, the Earl of Derby. 'Edward' is his Christian name, and, as
you may see, LEAR is only EARL transposed."

"But," said the lady, doubtingly, "here is a dedication to the
great-grandchildren, grand-nephews, and grand-nieces of Edward, thirteenth
Earl of Derby, by the author, Edward Lear."

"That," replied the other, "is simply a piece of mystification; I am in a
position to know that the whole book was composed and illustrated by Lord
Derby himself. In fact, there is no such a person at all as Edward Lear."

"Yet," said the other lady, "some friends of mine tell me they know Mr.
Lear."

"Quite a mistake! completely a mistake!" said the old gentleman, becoming
rather angry at the contradiction; "I am well aware of what I am saying: I
can inform you, no such a person as 'Edward Lear' exists!"

Hitherto I had kept silence; but as my hat was, as well as my handkerchief
and stick, largely marked inside with my name, and as I happened to have in
my pocket several letters addressed to me, the temptation was too great to
resist; so, flashing all these articles at once on my would-be
extinguisher's attention, I speedily reduced him to silence.

The second volume of Nonsense, commencing with the verses, "The Owl and the
Pussy-Cat," was written at different times, and for different sets of
children: the whole being collected in the course of last year, were then
Charing Cross.

The contents of the third or present volume were made also at different
intervals in the last two years.

Long years ago, in days when much of my time was passed in a country house,
where children and mirth abounded, the lines beginning, "There was an old
man of Tobago," were suggested to me by a valued friend, as a form of verse
lending itself to limitless variety for rhymes and pictures; and
thenceforth the greater part of the original drawings and verses for the
first "Book of Nonsense" were struck off with a pen, no assistance ever
having been given me in any way but that of uproarious delight and welcome
at the appearance of every new absurdity.

Most of these Drawings and Rhymes were transferred to lithographic stones
in the year 1846, and were then first published by Mr. Thomas McLean, of
the Haymarket. But that edition having been soon exhausted, and the call
for the "Book of Nonsense" continuing, I added a considerable number of
subjects to those previously-published, and having caused the whole to be
carefully reproduced in woodcuts by Messrs. Dalzell, I disposed of the
copyright to Messrs. Routledge and Warne, by whom the volume was published
in 1843.
                                                              EDWARD LEAR.

VILLA EMILY, SAN REMO,
August, 1871.

NONSENSE BOTANY.

       *        *        *        *        *

ONE HUNDRED NONSENSE PICTURES AND RHYMES.

    There was a young person of Bantry,
    Who frequently slept in the pantry;
    When disturbed by the mice, she appeased them with rice,
    That judicious young person of Bantry.

    There was an Old Man at a Junction,
    Whose feelings were wrung with compunction
    When they said, "The Train's gone!" he exclaimed, "How forlorn!"
    But remained on the rails of the Junction.

    There was an old person of Minety,
    Who purchased five hundred and ninety
    Large apples and pears, which he threw unawares
    At the heads of the people of Minety.

    There was an old man of Thermopylae,
    Who never did anything properly;
    But they said, "If you choose to boil eggs in your shoes,
    You shall never remain in Thermopylae."

    There was an old person of Deal,
    Who in walking used only his heel;
    When they said, "Tell us why?" he made no reply,
    That mysterious old person of Deal.

    There was an old man on the Humber,
    Who dined on a cake of Burnt Umber;
    When he said, "It's enough!" they only said, "Stuff!
    You amazing old man on the Humber!"

    There was an old man in a barge,
    Whose nose was exceedingly large;
    But in fishing by night, it supported a light,
    Which helped that old man in a barge.

    There was an old man of Dunrose;
    A parrot seized hold of his nose.
    When he grew melancholy, they said, "His name's Polly,"
    Which soothed that old man of Dunrose.

    There was an old man of Toulouse
    Who purchased a new pair of shoes;
    When they asked, "Are they pleasant?" he said, "Not at present!"
    That turbid old man of Toulouse.

    There was an old person of Bree,
    Who frequented the depths of the sea;
    She nurs'd the small fishes, and washed all the dishes,
    And swam back again into Bree.

    There was an old person of Bromley,
    Whose ways were not cheerful or comely;
    He sate in the dust, eating spiders and crust,
    That unpleasing old person of Bromley.

    There was an old person of Shields,
    Who frequented the vallies and fields;
    All the mice and the cats, and the snakes and the rats,
    Followed after that person of Shields.

    There was an old man of Dunluce,
    Who went out to sea on a goose:
    When he'd gone out a mile, he observ'd with a smile,
    "It is time to return to Dunluce."

    There was an old man of Dee-side
    Whose hat was exceedingly wide,
    But he said, "Do not fail, if it happen to hail,
    To come under my hat at Dee-side!"

    There was an old person in black,
    A Grasshopper jumped on his back;
    When it chirped in his ear, he was smitten with fear,
    That helpless old person in black.

    There was an old man of the Dargle
    Who purchased six barrels of Gargle;
    For he said, "I'll sit still, and will roll them down hill,
    For the fish in the depths of the Dargle."

    There was an old person of Pinner,
    As thin as a lath, if not thinner;
    They dressed him in white, and roll'd him up tight,
    That elastic old person of Pinner.

    There was an old person of China,
    Whose daughters were Jiska and Dinah,
    Amelia and Fluffy, Olivia and Chuffy,
    And all of them settled in China.

    There was an old man in a Marsh,
    Whose manners were futile and harsh;
    He sate on a log, and sang songs to a frog,
    That instructive old man in a Marsh.

    There was an old person of Brill,
    Who purchased a shirt with a frill;
    But they said, "Don't you wish, you mayn't look like a fish,
    You obsequious old person of Brill?"

    There was an old person of Wick,
    Who said, "Tick-a-Tick, Tick-a-Tick;
    Chickabee, Chickabaw." And he said nothing more,
    That laconic old person of Wick.

    There was an old man at a Station,
    Who made a promiscuous oration;
    But they said, "Take some snuff!--You have talk'd quite enough,
    You afflicting old man at a Station!"

    There was an old man of Three Bridges,
    Whose mind was distracted by midges,
    He sate on a wheel, eating underdone veal,
    Which relieved that old man of Three Bridges.

    There was an old man of Hong Kong,
    Who never did anything wrong;
    He lay on his back, with his head in a sack,
    That innocuous old man of Hong Kong.

    There was a young person in green,
    Who seldom was fit to be seen;
    She wore a long shawl, over bonnet and all,
    Which enveloped that person in green.

    There was an old person of Fife,
    Who was greatly disgusted with life;
    They sang him a ballad, and fed him on salad,
    Which cured that old person of Fife.

    There was an old man who screamed out
    Whenever they knocked him about:
    So they took off his boots, and fed him with fruits,
    And continued to knock him about.

    There was a young lady in white,
    Who looked out at the depths of the night;
    But the birds of the air, filled her heart with despair,
    And oppressed that young lady in white.

    There was an old person of Slough,
    Who danced at the end of a bough;
    But they said, "If you sneeze, you might damage the trees,
    You imprudent old person of Slough."

    There was an old person of Down,
    Whose face was adorned with a frown;
    When he opened the door, for one minute or more,
    He alarmed all the people of Down.

    There was a young person in red,
    Who carefully covered her head,
    With a bonnet of leather, and three lines of feather,
    Besides some long ribands of red.

    There was an old person of Hove,
    Who frequented the depths of a grove;
    Where he studied his books, with the wrens and the rooks,
    That tranquil old person of Hove.

    There was a young person in pink,
    Who called out for something to drink;
    But they said, "O my daughter, there's nothing but water!"
    Which vexed that young person in pink.

    There was an old lady of France,
    Who taught little ducklings to dance;
    When she said, "Tick-a-tack!" they only said, "Quack!"
    Which grieved that old lady of France.

    There was an old person of Putney,
    Whose food was roast spiders and chutney,
    Which he took with his tea, within sight of the sea,
    That romantic old person of Putney.

    There was an old person of Loo,
    Who said, "What on earth shall I do?"
    When they said, "Go away!" she continued to stay,
    That vexatious old person of Loo.

    There was an old person of Woking,
    Whose mind was perverse and provoking;
    He sate on a rail, with his head in a pail,
    That illusive old person of Woking.

    There was an old person of Dean
    Who dined on one pea, and one bean;
    For he said, "More than that, would make me too fat,"
    That cautious old person of Dean.

    There was a young lady in blue,
    Who said, "Is it you? Is it you?"
    When they said, "Yes, it is," she replied only, "Whizz!"
    That ungracious young lady in blue.

    There was an old Man in a Garden,
    Who always begged every one's pardon;
    When they asked him, "What for?" he replied, "You're a bore!
    And I trust you'll go out of my garden."

    There was an old person of Pisa,
    Whose daughters did nothing to please her;
    She dressed them in gray, and banged them all day,
    Round the walls of the city of Pisa.

    There was an old person of Florence,
    Who held mutton chops in abhorrence;
    He purchased a Bustard, and fried him in Mustard,
    Which choked that old person of Florence.

    There was an old person of Sheen,
    Whose expression was calm and serene;
    He sate in the water, and drank bottled porter,
    That placid old person of Sheen.

    There was an old person of Ware,
    Who rode on the back of a bear;
    When they ask'd, "Does it trot?" he said, "Certainly not!
    He's a Moppsikon Floppsikon bear!"

    There was a young person of Janina,
    Whose uncle was always a fanning her;
    When he fanned off her head, she smiled sweetly, and said,
    "You propitious old person of Janina!"

    There was an old man of Cashmere,
    Whose movements were scroobious and queer;
    Being slender and tall, he looked over a wall,
    And perceived two fat ducks of Cashmere.

    There was an old person of Cassel,
    Whose nose finished off in a tassel;
    But they call'd out, "Oh well! don't it look like a bell!"
    Which perplexed that old person of Cassel.

    There was an old person of Pett,
    Who was partly consumed by regret;
    He sate in a cart, and ate cold apple tart,
    Which relieved that old person of Pett.

    There was an old man of Spithead,
    Who opened the window, and said,--
    "Fil-jomble, fil-jumble, fil-rumble-come-tumble!"
    That doubtful old man of Spithead.

    There was an old man on the Border,
    Who lived in the utmost disorder;
    He danced with the cat, and made tea in his hat,
    Which vexed all the folks on the Border.

    There was an old man of Dumbree,
    Who taught little owls to drink tea;
    For he said, "To eat mice is not proper or nice,"
    That amiable man of Dumbree.

    There was an old person of Filey,
    Of whom his acquaintance spoke highly;
    He danced perfectly well, to the sound of a bell,
    And delighted the people of Filey.

    There was an old man whose remorse
    Induced him to drink Caper Sauce;
    For they said, "If mixed up with some cold claret-cup,
    It will certainly soothe your remorse!"

    There was an old man of Ibreem,
    Who suddenly threaten'd to scream;
    But they said, "If you do, we will thump you quite blue,
    You disgusting old man of Ibreem!"

    There was an old person of Wilts,
    Who constantly walked upon stilts;
    He wreathed them with lilies and daffy-down-dillies,
    That elegant person of Wilts.

    There was an old person of Grange,
    Whose manners were scroobious and strange;
    He sailed to St. Blubb in a waterproof tub,
    That aquatic old person of Grange.

    There was an old person of Newry,
    Whose manners were tinctured with fury;
    He tore all the rugs, and broke all the jugs,
    Within twenty miles' distance of Newry.

    There was an old man of Dumblane,
    Who greatly resembled a crane;
    But they said, "Is it wrong, since your legs are so long,
    To request you won't stay in Dumblane?"

    There was an old man of Port Grigor,
    Whose actions were noted for vigour;
    He stood on his head till his waistcoat turned red,
    That eclectic old man of Port Grigor.

    There was an old man of El Hums,
    Who lived upon nothing but crumbs,
    Which he picked off the ground, with the other birds round,
    In the roads and the lanes of El Hums.

    There was an old man of West Dumpet,
    Who possessed a large nose like a trumpet;
    When he blew it aloud, it astonished the crowd,
    And was heard through the whole of West Dumpet.

    There was an old person of Sark,
    Who made an unpleasant remark;
    But they said, "Don't you see what a brute you must be,
    You obnoxious old person of Sark!"

    There was an old man whose despair
    Induced him to purchase a hare:
    Whereon one fine day he rode wholly away,
    Which partly assuaged his despair.

    There was an old person of Barnes,
    Whose garments were covered with darns;
    But they said, "Without doubt, you will soon wear them out,
    You luminous person of Barnes!"

    There was an old person of Nice,
    Whose associates were usually Geese.
    They walked out together in all sorts of weather,
    That affable person of Nice!

    There was a young lady of Greenwich,
    Whose garments were border'd with Spinach;
    But a large spotty Calf bit her shawl quite in half,
    Which alarmed that young lady of Greenwich.

    There was an old person of Cannes,
    Who purchased three fowls and a fan;
    Those she placed on a stool, and to make them feel cool
    She constantly fanned them at Cannes.

    There was an old person of Ickley,
    Who could not abide to ride quickly;
    He rode to Karnak on a tortoise's back,
    That moony old person of Ickley.

    There was an old person of Hyde,
    Who walked by the shore with his bride,
    Till a Crab who came near fill'd their bosoms with fear,
    And they said, "Would we'd never left Hyde!"

    There was an old person in gray,
    Whose feelings were tinged with dismay;
    She purchased two parrots, and fed them with carrots,
    Which pleased that old person in gray.

    There was an old man of Ancona,
    Who found a small dog with no owner,
    Which he took up and down all the streets of the town,
    That anxious old man of Ancona.

    There was an old person of Sestri,
    Who sate himself down in the vestry;
    When they said, "You are wrong!" he merely said "Bong!"
    That repulsive old person of Sestri.

    There was an old person of Blythe,
    Who cut up his meat with a scythe;
    When they said, "Well! I never!" he cried, "Scythes for ever!"
    That lively old person of Blythe.

    There was a young person of Ayr,
    Whose head was remarkably square:
    On the top, in fine weather, she wore a gold feather;
    Which dazzled the people of Ayr.

    There was an old person of Rimini,
    Who said, "Gracious! Goodness! O Gimini!"
    When they said, "Please be still!" she ran down a hill,
    And was never more heard of at Rimini.

    There is a young lady, whose nose,
    Continually prospers and grows;
    When it grew out of sight, she exclaimed in a fright,
    "Oh! Farewell to the end of my nose!"

    There was an old person of Ealing,
    Who was wholly devoid of good feeling;
    He drove a small gig, with three Owls and a Pig,
    Which distressed all the people of Ealing.

    There was an old man of Thames Ditton,
    Who called out for something to sit on;
    But they brought him a hat, and said, "Sit upon that,
    You abruptious old man of Thames Ditton!"

    There was an old person of Bray,
    Who sang through the whole of the day
    To his ducks and his pigs, whom he fed upon figs,
    That valuable person of Bray.

    There was a young person whose history
    Was always considered a mystery;
    She sate in a ditch, although no one knew which,
    And composed a small treatise on history.

    There was an old person of Bow,
    Whom nobody happened to know;
    So they gave him some soap, and said coldly, "We hope
    You will go back directly to Bow!"

    There was an old person of Rye,
    Who went up to town on a fly;
    But they said, "If you cough, you are safe to fall off!
    You abstemious old person of Rye!"

    There was an old person of Crowle,
    Who lived in the nest of an owl;
    When they screamed in the nest, he screamed out with the rest,
    That depressing old person of Crowle.

    There was an old Lady of Winchelsea,
    Who said, "If you needle or pin shall see
    On the floor of my room, sweep it up with the broom!"
    That exhaustive old Lady of Winchelsea!

    There was an old man in a tree,
    Whose whiskers were lovely to see;
    But the birds of the air pluck'd them perfectly bare,
    To make themselves nests in that tree.

    There was a young lady of Corsica,
    Who purchased a little brown saucy-cur;
    Which she fed upon ham, and hot raspberry jam,
    That expensive young lady of Corsica.

    There was a young lady of Firle,
    Whose hair was addicted to curl;
    It curled up a tree, and all over the sea,
    That expansive young lady of Firle.

    There was an old person of Stroud,
    Who was horribly jammed in a crowd;
    Some she slew with a kick, some she scrunched with a stick,
    That impulsive old person of Stroud.

    There was an old man of Boulak,
    Who sate on a Crocodile's back;
    But they said, "Towr'ds the night he may probably bite,
    Which might vex you, old man of Boulak!"

    There was an old person of Skye,
    Who waltz'd with a Bluebottle fly:
    They buzz'd a sweet tune, to the light of the moon,
    And entranced all the people of Skye.

    There was an old man of Blackheath,
    Whose head was adorned with a wreath
    Of lobsters and spice, pickled onions and mice,
    That uncommon old man of Blackheath.

    There was an old man, who when little
    Fell casually into a kettle;
    But, growing too stout, he could never get out,
    So he passed all his life in that kettle.

    There was an old person of Dundalk,
    Who tried to teach fishes to walk;
    When they tumbled down dead, he grew weary, and said,
    "I had better go back to Dundalk!"

    There was an old person of Shoreham,
    Whose habits were marked by decorum;
    He bought an Umbrella, and sate in the cellar,
    Which pleased all the people of Shoreham.

    There was an old person of Bar,
    Who passed all her life in a jar,
    Which she painted pea-green, to appear more serene,
    That placid old person of Bar.

    There was a young person of Kew,
    Whose virtues and vices were few;
    But with blamable haste she devoured some hot paste,
    Which destroyed that young person of Kew.

    There was an old person of Jodd,
    Whose ways were perplexing and odd;
    She purchased a whistle, and sate on a thistle,
    And squeaked to the people of Jodd.

    There was an old person of Bude,
    Whose deportment was vicious and crude;
    He wore a large ruff of pale straw-colored stuff,
    Which perplexed all the people of Bude.

    There was an old person of Brigg,
    Who purchased no end of a wig;
    So that only his nose, and the end of his toes,
    Could be seen when he walked about Brigg.

    There was an old man of Messina,
    Whose daughter was named Opsibeena;
    She wore a small wig, and rode out on a pig,
    To the perfect delight of Messina.

TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES.

    The Absolutely Abstemious Ass,
    who resided in a Barrel, and only lived on
    Soda Water and Pickled Cucumbers.

    The Bountiful Beetle,
    who always carried a Green Umbrella when it didn't rain,
    and left it at home when it did.

    The Comfortable Confidential Cow,
    who sate in her Red Morocco Arm Chair and
    toasted her own Bread at the parlour Fire.

    The Dolomphious Duck,
    who caught Spotted Frogs for her dinner
    with a Runcible Spoon.

    The Enthusiastic Elephant,
    who ferried himself across the water with the
    Kitchen Poker and a New pair of Ear-rings.

    The Fizzgiggious Fish,
    who always walked about upon Stilts,
    because he had no legs.

    The Good-natured Grey Gull,
    who carried the Old Owl, and his Crimson Carpet-bag,
    across the river, because he could not swim.

    The Hasty Higgeldipiggledy Hen,
    who went to market in a Blue Bonnet and Shawl,
    and bought a Fish for her Supper.

    The Inventive Indian,
    who caught a Remarkable Rabbit in a
    Stupendous Silver Spoon.

    The Judicious Jubilant Jay,
    who did up her Back Hair every morning with a Wreath of Roses,
    Three feathers, and a Gold Pin.

    The Kicking Kangaroo,
    who wore a Pale Pink Muslin dress
    with Blue spots.

    The Lively Learned Lobster,
    who mended his own Clothes with
    a Needle and Thread.

    The Melodious Meritorious Mouse,
    who played a merry minuet on the
    Piano-forte.

    The Nutritious Newt,
    who purchased a Round Plum-pudding
    for his grand-daughter.

    The Obsequious Ornamental Ostrich,
    who wore Boots to keep his
    feet quite dry.

    The Perpendicular Purple Polly,
    who read the Newspaper and ate Parsnip Pie
    with his Spectacles.

    The Queer Querulous Quail,
    who smoked a Pipe of tobacco on the top of
    a Tin Tea-kettle.

    The Rural Runcible Raven,
    who wore a White Wig and flew away
    with the Carpet Broom.

    The Scroobious Snake,
    who always wore a Hat on his Head, for
    fear he should bite anybody.

    The Tumultuous Tom-tommy Tortoise,
    who beat a Drum all day long in the
    middle of the wilderness.

    The Umbrageous Umbrella-maker,
    whose Face nobody ever saw, because it was
    always covered by his Umbrella.

    The Visibly Vicious Vulture,
    who wrote some Verses to a Veal-cutlet in a
    Volume bound in Vellum.

    The Worrying Whizzing Wasp,
    who stood on a Table, and played sweetly on a
    Flute with a Morning Cap.

    The Excellent Double-extra XX
    imbibing King Xerxes, who lived a
    long while ago.

    The Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
    whose Head was ever so much bigger than his
    Body, and whose Hat was rather small.

    The Zigzag Zealous Zebra,
    who carried five Monkeys on his back all
    the way to Jellibolee.Goodman, and Project Gutenberg Distributed Proofreaders

Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this file which
      includes the original illustrations and music clips as well as
      midi, pdf, and lilypond files.
      See 13650-h.htm or 13650-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/3/6/5/13650/13650-h/13650-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/3/6/5/13650/13650-h.zip)

NONSENSE BOOKS

by

EDWARD LEAR

With all the Original Illustrations

PUBLISHERS' NOTICE.
The first _Book of Nonsense_ was published in 1846. Three other volumes,--
_Nonsense Songs, Stories, etc._, published in 1871; _More Nonsense
Pictures, etc._, in 1872; and _Laughable Lyrics: A Fresh Book of Nonsense,
etc._, in 1877,--comprise all the "Nonsense Books" written by Mr. Lear.

  "Surely the most beneficent and innocent of all books
  yet produced is the _Book of Nonsense_, with its corollary
  carols, inimitable and refreshing, and perfect in rhythm.
  I really don't know any author to whom I am half so
  grateful for my idle self as Edward Lear. I shall put
  him first of my hundred authors."

  JOHN RUSKIN,

    In the _List of the Best Hundred Authors_.

CONTENTS.

   I.   A BOOK OF NONSENSE.
   II.  NONSENSE SONGS, STORIES, BOTANY, AND ALPHABETS.
   III. MORE NONSENSE PICTURES, RHYMES, BOTANY, ETC.
   IV.  LAUGHABLE LYRICS:
        A FRESH BOOK OF NONSENSE POEMS, SONGS, BOTANY, ETC.

The following lines by Mr. Lear were written for a young lady of his
acquaintance, who had quoted to him the words of a young lady not of his
acquaintance,

  "How pleasant to know Mr. Lear!"

      "How pleasant to know Mr. Lear!"
        Who has written such volumes of stuff!
      Some think him ill-tempered and queer,
        But a few think him pleasant enough.

      His mind is concrete and fastidious,
        His nose is remarkably big;
      His visage is more or less hideous,
        His beard it resembles a wig.

      He has ears, and two eyes, and ten fingers,
        Leastways if you reckon two thumbs;
      Long ago he was one of the singers,
        But now he is one of the dumbs.

      He sits in a beautiful parlor,
        With hundreds of books on the wall;
      He drinks a great deal of Marsala,
        But never gets tipsy at all.

      He has many friends, lay men and clerical,
        Old Foss is the name of his cat;
      His body is perfectly spherical,
        He weareth a runcible hat.

      When he walks in waterproof white,
        The children run after him so!
      Calling out, "He's come out in his night-
        Gown, that crazy old Englishman, oh!"

      He weeps by the side of the ocean,
        He weeps on the top of the hill;
      He purchases pancakes and lotion,
        And chocolate shrimps from the mill.

      He reads, but he cannot speak, Spanish,
        He cannot abide ginger beer:
      Ere the days of his pilgrimage vanish,
        How pleasant to know Mr. Lear!

       *        *        *        *        *

INTRODUCTION.

Edward Lear, the artist, Author of "Journals of a Landscape Painter" in
various out-of-the-way countries, and of the delightful "Books of
Nonsense," which have amused successive generations of children, died on
Sunday, January 29, 1888, at San Remo, Italy, where he had lived for twenty
years. Few names could evoke a wider expression of passing regret at their
appearance in the obituary column; for until his health began to fail he
was known to an immense and almost a cosmopolitan circle of acquaintance,
and popular wherever he was known. Fewer still could call up in the minds
of intimate friends a deeper and more enduring feeling of sorrow for
personal loss, mingled with the pleasantest of memories; for it was
impossible to know him thoroughly and not to love him. London, Rome, the
Mediterranean countries generally, Ceylon and India, are still all dotted
with survivors among his generation who will mourn for him affectionately,
although his latter years were spent in comparatively close retirement. He
was a man of striking nobility of nature, fearless, independent, energetic,
given to forming for himself strong opinions, often hastily, sometimes
bitterly; not always strong or sound in judgment, but always seeking after
truth in every matter, and following it as he understood it in scorn of
consequence; utterly unselfish, devoted to his friends, generous even to
extravagance towards any one who had ever been connected with his fortunes
or his travels; playful, light-hearted, witty, and humorous, but not
without those occasional fits of black depression and nervous irritability
to which such temperaments are liable.

Great and varied as the merits of his pictures are, Lear hardly succeeded
in achieving any great popularity as a landscape-painter. His work was
frequently done on private commission, and he rarely sent in pictures for
the Academy or other exhibitions. His larger and more highly finished
landscapes were unequal in technical perfection,--sometimes harsh or cold
in color, or stiff in composition; sometimes full of imagination, at others
literal and prosaic,--but always impressive reproductions of interesting or
peculiar scenery. In later years he used in conversation to qualify himself
as a "topographical artist;" and the definition was true, though not
exhaustive. He had an intuitive and a perfectly trained eye for the
character and beauty of distant mountain lines, the solemnity of rocky
gorges, the majesty of a single mountain rising from a base of plain or
sea; and he was equally exact in rendering the true forms of the middle
distances and the specialties of foreground detail belonging to the various
lands through which he had wandered as a sketcher. Some of his pictures
show a mastery which has rarely been equalled over the difficulties of
painting an immense plain as seen from a height, reaching straight away
from the eye of the spectator until it is lost in a dim horizon. Sir
Roderick Murchison used to say that he always understood the geological
peculiarities of a country he had only studied in Lear's sketches. The
compliment was thoroughly justified; and it is not every landscape-painter
to whom it could honestly be paid.

The history of Lear's choice of a career was a curious one. He was the
youngest of twenty-one children, and, through a family mischance, was
thrown entirely on the limited resources of an elderly sister at a very
early age. As a boy he had always dabbled in colors for his own amusement,
and had been given to poring over the ordinary boys' books upon natural
history. It occurred to him to try to turn his infant talents to account;
and he painted upon cardboard a couple of birds in the style which the
older among us remember as having been called Oriental tinting, took them
to a small shop, and sold them for fourpence. The kindness of friends, to
whom he was ever grateful, gave him the opportunity of more serious and
more remunerative study, and he became a patient and accurate zooelogical
draughtsman. Many of the birds in the earlier volumes of Gould's
magnificent folios were drawn for him by Lear. A few years back there were
eagles alive in the Zooelogical Gardens in Regent's Park to which Lear could
point as old familiar friends that he had drawn laboriously from claw to
beak fifty years before. He united with this kind of work the more
unpleasant occupation of drawing the curiosities of disease or deformity in
hospitals. One day, as he was busily intent on the portrait of a bird in
the Zooelogical Gardens, an old gentleman came and looked over his shoulder,
entered into conversation, and finally said to him, "You must come and draw
my birds at Knowsley." Lear did not know where Knowsley was, or what it
meant; but the old gentleman was the thirteenth Earl of Derby. The
successive Earls of Derby have been among Lear's kindest and most generous
patrons. He went to Knowsley, and the drawings in the "Knowsley Menagerie"
(now a rare and highly-prized work among book collectors) are by Lear's
hand. At Knowsley he became a permanent favorite; and it was there that he
composed in prolific succession his charming and wonderful series of
utterly nonsensical rhymes and drawings. Lear had already begun seriously
to study landscape. When English winters began to threaten his health, Lord
Derby started a subscription which enabled him to go to Rome as a student
and artist, and no doubt gave him recommendations among Anglo-Roman
society which laid the foundations of a numerous _clientele_. It was in the
Roman summers that Lear first began to exercise the taste for pictorial
wandering which grew into a habit and a passion, to fill vivid and copious
note-books as he went, and to illustrate them by spirited and accurate
drawings; and his first volume of "Illustrated Excursions in Italy,"
published in 1846, is gratefully dedicated to his Knowsley patron.

Only those who have travelled with him could know what a delightful comrade
he was to men whose tastes ran more or less parallel to his own. It was not
everybody who could travel with him; for he was so irrepressibly anxious
not to lose a moment of the time at his disposal for gathering into his
garners the beauty and interest of the lands over which he journeyed, that
he was careless of comfort and health. Calabria, Sicily, the Desert of
Sinai, Egypt and Nubia, Greece and Albania, Palestine, Syria, Athos,
Candia, Montenegro, Zagori (who knows now where Zagori is, or was?), were
as thoroughly explored and sketched by him as the more civilized localities
of Malta, Corsica, and Corfu. He read insatiably before starting all the
recognized guide-books and histories of the country he intended to draw;
and his published itineraries are marked by great strength and literary
interest quite irrespectively of the illustrations. And he had his reward.
It is not any ordinary journalist and sketcher who could have compelled
from Tennyson such a tribute as lines "To E.L. on his Travels in Greece":--

    "Illyrian woodlands, echoing falls
      Of water, sheets of summer glass,
      The long divine Peneian pass,
    The vast Akrokeraunian walls,

    "Tomohrit, Athos, all things fair,
      With such a pencil, such a pen,
      You shadow forth to distant men,
    I read and felt that I was there."

Lear was a man to whom, as to Tennyson's Ulysses,

    "All experience is an arch wherethrough
    Gleams that untravelled world."

After settling at San Remo, and when he was nearly sixty years old, he
determined to visit India and Ceylon. He started once and failed, being
taken so ill at Suez that he was obliged to return. The next year he
succeeded, and brought away some thousands of drawings of the most striking
views from all three Presidencies and from the tropical island. His
appetite for travel continued to grow with what it fed upon; and although
he hated a long sea-voyage, he used seriously to contemplate as possible a
visit to relations in New Zealand. It may safely, however, be averred that
no considerations would have tempted him to visit the Arctic regions.

    A hard-working life, checkered by the odd adventures which happen
    to the odd and the adventurous and pass over the commonplace; a
    career brightened by the high appreciation of unimpeachable
    critics; lightened, till of late, by the pleasant society and good
    wishes of innumerable friends; saddened by the growing pressure of
    ill health and solitude; cheered by his constant trust in the love
    and sympathy of those who knew him best, however far away,--such
    was the life of Edward Lear.

      --_The London Saturday Review,_ Feb. 4, 1888.

Among the writers who have striven with varying success during the last
thirty or forty years to awaken the merriment of the "rising generation" of
the time being, Mr. Edward Lear occupies the first place in seniority, if
not in merit. The parent of modern nonsense-writers, he is distinguished
from all his followers and imitators by the superior consistency with which
he has adhered to his aim,--that of amusing his readers by fantastic
absurdities, as void of vulgarity or cynicism as they are incapable of
being made to harbor any symbolical meaning. He "never deviates into
sense;" but those who appreciate him never feel the need of such deviation.
He has a genius for coining absurd names and words, which, even when they
are suggested by the exigencies of his metre, have a ludicrous
appropriateness to the matter in hand. His verse is, with the exception of
a certain number of cockney rhymes, wonderfully flowing and even
melodious--or, as he would say, _meloobious_--while to all these
qualifications for his task must finally be added the happy gift of
pictorial expression, enabling him to double, nay, often to quadruple, the
laughable effect of his text by an inexhaustible profusion of the quaintest
designs. Generally speaking, these designs are, as it were, an idealization
of the efforts of a clever child; but now and then--as in the case of the
nonsense-botany--Mr. Lear reminds us what a genuine and graceful artist he
really is. The advantage to a humorist of being able to illustrate his own
text has been shown in the case of Thackeray and Mr. W.S. Gilbert, to
mention two familiar examples; but in no other instance of such a
combination have we discovered such geniality as is to be found in the
nonsense-pictures of Mr. Lear. We have spoken above of the melodiousness of
Mr. Lear's verses, a quality which renders them excellently suitable for
musical setting, and which has not escaped the notice of the author
himself. We have also heard effective arrangements, presumably by other
composers, of the adventures of the Table and the Chair, and of the cruise
of the Owl and the Pussy-cat,--the latter introduced into the "drawing-room
entertainment" of one of the followers of John Parry. Indeed, in these days
of adaptations, it is to be wondered at that no enterprising librettist has
attempted to build a children's comic opera out of the materials supplied
in the four books with which we are now concerned. The first of these,
originally published in 1846, and brought out in an enlarged form in 1863,
is exclusively devoted to nonsense-verses of one type. Mr. Lear is careful
to disclaim the credit of having created this type, for he tells us in the
preface to his third book that "the lines beginning, 'There was an old man
of Tobago,' were suggested to me by a valued friend, as a form of verse
leading itself to limitless variety for Rhymes and Pictures." Dismissing
the further question of the authorship of "There was an old man of Tobago,"
we propose to give a few specimens of Mr. Lear's Protean powers as
exhibited in the variation of this simple type. Here, to begin with, is a
favorite verse, which we are very glad to have an opportunity of giving, as
it is often incorrectly quoted, "cocks" being substituted for "owls" in the
third line:

    "There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who said, 'It is just as I feared!
    Two Owls and a Hen, four Larks and a Wren,
    Have all built their nests in my beard!'"

With the kindly fatalism which is the distinctive note of the foregoing
stanza, the sentiment of our next extract is in vivid contrast:--

    "There was an Old Man in a tree,
    Who was terribly bored by a bee;
    When they said, 'Does it buzz?' he replied, 'Yes, it does!
    It's a regular brute of a Bee.'"

To the foregoing verse an historic interest attaches, if, that is, we are
right in supposing it to have inspired Mr. Gilbert with his famous
"Nonsense-Rhyme in Blank Verse." We quote from memory:--

    "There was an Old Man of St. Bees,
    Who was stung in the arm by a wasp.
    When they asked, 'Does it hurt?' he replied, 'No, it doesn't,
    But I thought all the while 'twas a Hornet!'"

Passing over the lines referring to the "Young Person" of Crete to whom the
epithet "ombliferous" is applied, we may be pardoned--on the ground of the
geographical proximity of the two countries named--for quoting together two
stanzas which in reality are separated by a good many pages:--

    "There was a Young Lady of Norway,
    Who casually sat in a doorway;
    When the doors queezed her flat, she exclaimed, 'What of that?'
    This courageous young person of Norway."

    "There was a Young Lady of Sweden,
    Who went by the slow train to Weedon;
    When they cried, 'Weedon Station!' she made no observation,
    But thought she should go back to Sweden."

A noticeable feature about this first book, and one which we think is
peculiar to it, is the harsh treatment which the eccentricities of the
inhabitants of certain towns appear to have met with at the hands of their
fellow-residents. No less than three people are "smashed,"--the Old Man of
Whitehaven "who danced a quadrille with a Raven;" the Old Person of Buda;
and the Old Man with a gong "who bumped at it all the day long," though in
the last-named case we admit that there was considerable provocation.
Before quitting the first "Nonsense-Book," we would point out that it
contains one or two forms that are interesting; for instance, "scroobious,"
which we take to be a Portmanteau word, and "spickle-speckled," a favorite
form of reduplication with Mr. Lear, and of which the best specimen occurs
in his last book, "He tinkledy-binkledy-winkled the bell." The second book,
published in 1871, shows Mr. Lear in the maturity of sweet desipience, and
will perhaps remain the favorite volume of the four to grown-up readers.
The nonsense-songs are all good, and "The Story of the Four little Children
who went Round the World" is the most exquisite piece of imaginative
absurdity that the present writer is acquainted with. But before coming to
that, let us quote a few lines from "The Jumblies," who, as all the world
knows, went to sea in a sieve:--

      "They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,
      To a land all covered with trees.
    And they bought an Owl, and a useful Cart,
    And a pound of Rice, and a Cranberry Tart,
      And a hive of silvery Bees.
    And they bought a Pig, and some green Jack-Daws,
    And a lovely Monkey with lollipop paws,
    And forty bottles of Ring-Bo-Ree,
      And no end of Stilton Cheese.
        _Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live.
        Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve._
    And in twenty years they all came back,
      In twenty years or more,
    And every one said, 'How tall they've grown!
    For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
      And the hills of the Chankly Bore.'"

From the pedestrian excursion of the Table and the Chair, we cannot resist
making a brief quotation, though in this, as in every case, the inability
to quote the drawings also is a sad drawback:--

    "So they both went slowly down,
    And walked about the town,
    With a cheerful bumpy sound,
    As they toddled round and round.
    And everybody cried,
    As they hastened to their side,
    'See, the Table and the Chair
    Have come out to take the air!'

    "But in going down an alley
    To a castle in a valley,
    They completely lost their way,
    And wandered all the day,
    Till, to see them safely back,
    They paid a Ducky-Quack,
    And a Beetle and a Mouse,
    Who took them to their house.

    "Then they whispered to each other,
    'O delightful little brother,
    What a lovely walk we've taken!
    Let us dine on Beans and Bacon!'
    So the Ducky and the leetle
    Browny-Mousy, and the Beetle
    Dined, and danced upon their heads,
    Till they toddled to their beds."

"The Story of the Four little Children who went Round the World" follows
next, and the account of the manner in which they occupied themselves while
on shipboard may be transcribed for the benefit of those unfortunate
persons who have not perused the original: "During the day-time Violet
chiefly occupied herself in putting salt-water into a churn, while her
three brothers churned it violently in the hope it would turn into butter,
which it seldom if ever did." After journeying for a time, they saw some
land at a distance, "and when they came to it they found it was an island
made of water quite surrounded by earth. Besides that it was bordered by
evanescent isthmuses with a great Gulf-Stream running about all over it, so
that it was perfectly beautiful, and contained only a single tree, five
hundred and three feet high." In a later passage, we read how "by-and-by
the children came to a country where there were no houses, but only an
incredibly innumerable number of large bottles without corks, and of a
dazzling and sweetly susceptible blue color. Each of these blue bottles
contained a bluebottlefly, and all these interesting animals live
continually together in the most copious and rural harmony, nor perhaps in
many parts of the world is such perfect and abject happiness to be found."
Our last quotation from this inimitable recital shall be from the
description of their adventure on a great plain where they espied an object
which "on a nearer approach and on an accurately cutaneous inspection,
seemed to be somebody in a large white wig sitting on an arm-chair made of
sponge-cake and oyster-shells." This turned out to be the "Co-operative
Cauliflower," who, "while the whole party from the boat was gazing at him
with mingled affection and disgust ... suddenly arose, and in a somewhat
plumdomphious manner hurried off towards the setting sun, his steps
supported by two superincumbent confidential cucumbers ... till he finally
disappeared on the brink of the western sky in a crystal cloud of sudorific
sand. So remarkable a sight of course impressed the four children very
deeply; and they returned immediately to their boat with a strong sense of
undeveloped asthma and a great appetite."

In his third book, Mr. Lear takes occasion in an entertaining preface to
repudiate the charge of harboring any ulterior motive beyond that of
"Nonsense pure and absolute" in any of his verses or pictures, and tells a
delightful anecdote illustrative of the "persistently absurd report" that
the Earl of Derby was the author of the first book of "Nonsense." In this
volume he reverts once more to the familiar form adopted in his original
efforts, and with little falling off. It is to be remarked that the third
division is styled "Twenty-Six Nonsense Rhymes and Pictures," although
there is no more rhyme than reason in any of the set. Our favorite
illustrations are those of the "Scroobious Snake who always wore a Hat on
his Head, for fear he should bite anybody," and the "Visibly Vicious
Vulture who wrote some Verses to a Veal-cutlet in a Volume bound in
Vellum." In the fourth and last of Mr. Lear's books, we meet not only with
familiar words, but personages and places,--old friends like the Jumblies,
the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo, the Quangle Wangle, the hills of the Chankly Bore,
and the great Gromboolian plain, as well as new creations, such as the Dong
with a luminous Nose, whose story is a sort of nonsense version of the love
of Nausicaa for Ulysses, only that the sexes are inverted. In these verses,
graceful fancy is so subtly interwoven with nonsense as almost to beguile
us into feeling a real interest in Mr. Lear's absurd creations. So again in
the Pelican chorus there are some charming lines:--

    "By day we fish, and at eve we stand
    On long bare islands of yellow sand.
    And when the sun sinks slowly down,
    And the great rock-walls grow dark and brown,
    When the purple river rolls fast and dim,
    And the ivory Ibis starlike skim,
    Wing to wing we dance around," etc.

The other nonsense-poems are all good, but we have no space for further
quotation, and will take leave of our subject by propounding the following
set of examination questions which a friend who is deeply versed in Mr.
Lear's books has drawn up for us:--

  1. What do you gather from a study of Mr. Lear's works to
     have been the prevalent characteristics of the inhabitants of
     Gretna, Prague, Thermopylae, Wick, and Hong Kong?

  2. State briefly what historical events are connected with
     Ischia, Chertsey, Whitehaven, Boulak, and Jellibolee.

  3. Comment, with illustrations, upon Mr. Lear's use of the
     following words: Runcible, propitious, dolomphious, borascible,
     fizzgiggious, himmeltanious, tumble-dum-down, spongetaneous.

  4. Enumerate accurately all the animals who lived on the
     Quangle Wangle's Hat, and explain how the Quangle Wangle
     was enabled at once to enlighten his five travelling companions
     as to the true nature of the Co-operative Cauliflower.

  5. What were the names of the five daughters of the Old
     Person of China, and what was the purpose for which the
     Old Man of the Dargle purchased six barrels of Gargle?

  6. Collect notices of King Xerxes in Mr. Lear's works, and
     state your theory, if you have any, as to the character and
     appearance of Nupiter Piffkin.

  7. Draw pictures of the Plum-pudding flea, and the Moppsikon
     Floppsikon Bear, and state by whom waterproof tubs
     were first used.

  8.         "There was an old man at a station
               Who made a promiscuous oration."

     What bearing may we assume the foregoing couplet to have
     upon Mr. Lear's political views?
                                   --_The London Spectator_.

       *        *        *        *        *

A BOOK OF NONSENSE

by

EDWARD LEAR.

With All the Original Pictures and Verses

There was an Old Derry down Derry, who loved to see little folks
  merry;
    So he made them a Book, and with laughter they shook
      At the fun of that Derry down Derry.

                 Original Dedication.

                       TO THE
 GREAT-GRANDCHILDREN, GRAND-NEPHEWS, AND GRAND-NIECES
           OF EDWARD, 13TH EARL OF DERBY,
          THIS BOOK OF DRAWINGS AND VERSES

     (The greater part of which were originally
         made and composed for their parents.)

               Is Dedicated by the Author,
                                          EDWARD LEAR.

       London, 1862.

       *        *        *        *        *

    There was an Old Man with a nose,
    Who said, "If you choose to suppose
    That my nose is too long, you are certainly wrong!"
    That remarkable Man with a nose.

    There was a Young Person of Smyrna,
    Whose Grandmother threatened to burn her;
    But she seized on the Cat, and said, "Granny, burn that!
    You incongruous Old Woman of Smyrna!"

    There was an Old Man on a hill,
    Who seldom, if ever, stood still;
    He ran up and down in his Grandmother's gown,
    Which adorned that Old Man on a hill.

    There was an Old Person of Chili,
    Whose conduct was painful and silly;
    He sate on the stairs, eating apples and pears,
    That imprudent Old Person of Chili.

    There was an Old Man with a gong,
    Who bumped at it all the day long;
    But they called out, "Oh, law! you're a horrid old bore!"
    So they smashed that Old Man with a gong.

    There was an Old Man of Kilkenny,
    Who never had more than a penny;
    He spent all that money in onions and honey,
    That wayward Old Man of Kilkenny.

    There was an Old Man of Columbia,
    Who was thirsty, and called out for some beer;
    But they brought it quite hot, in a small copper pot,
    Which disgusted that man of Columbia.

    There was an Old Man in a tree,
    Who was horribly bored by a Bee;
    When they said, "Does it buzz?" he replied, "Yes, it does!
    It's a regular brute of a Bee."

    There was an Old Lady of Chertsey,
    Who made a remarkable curtsey;
    She twirled round and round, till she sank underground,
    Which distressed all the people of Chertsey.

    There was a Young Lady whose chin
    Resembled the point of a pin;
    So she had it made sharp, and purchased a harp,
    And played several tunes with her chin.

    There was an Old Man with a flute,--
    A "sarpint" ran into his boot!
    But he played day and night, till the "sarpint" took flight,
    And avoided that Man with a flute.

    There was a Young Lady of Portugal,
    Whose ideas were excessively nautical;
    She climbed up a tree to examine the sea,
    But declared she would never leave Portugal.

    There was an Old Person of Ischia,
    Whose conduct grew friskier and friskier;
    He danced hornpipes and jigs, and ate thousands of figs,
    That lively Old Person of Ischia

    There was an Old Man of Vienna,
    Who lived upon Tincture of Senna;
    When that did not agree, he took Camomile Tea,
    That nasty Old Man of Vienna.

    There was an Old Man in a boat,
    Who said, "I'm afloat! I'm afloat!"
    When they said, "No, you ain't!" he was ready to faint,
    That unhappy Old Man in a boat.

    There was an Old Person of Buda,
    Whose conduct grew ruder and ruder,
    Till at last with a hammer they silenced his clamor.
    By smashing that Person of Buda.

    There was an Old Man of Moldavia,
    Who had the most curious behavior;
    For while he was able, he slept on a table,
    That funny Old Man of Moldavia.

    There was an Old Person of Hurst,
    Who drank when he was not athirst;
    When they said, "You'll grow fatter!" he answered "What matter?"
    That globular Person of Hurst.

    There was an Old Man of Madras,
    Who rode on a cream-colored Ass;
    But the length of its ears so promoted his fears,
    That it killed that Old Man of Madras.

    There was an Old Person of Dover,
    Who rushed through a field of blue clover;
    But some very large Bees stung his nose and his knees,
    So he very soon went back to Dover.

    There was an Old Person of Leeds,
    Whose head was infested with beads;
    She sat on a stool and ate gooseberry-fool,
    Which agreed with that Person of Leeds.

    There was an Old Person of Cadiz,
    Who was always polite to all ladies;
    But in handing his daughter, he fell into the water,
    Which drowned that Old Person of Cadiz.

    There was an Old Man of the Isles,
    Whose face was pervaded with smiles;
    He sang "High dum diddle," and played on the fiddle,
    That amiable Man of the Isles.

    There was an Old Person of Basing,
    Whose presence of mind was amazing;
    He purchased a steed, which he rode at full speed,
    And escaped from the people of Basing.

    There was an Old Man who supposed
    That the street door was partially closed;
    But some very large Rats ate his coats and his hats,
    While that futile Old Gentleman dozed.

    There was an Old Person whose habits
    Induced him to feed upon Rabbits;
    When he'd eaten eighteen, he turned perfectly green,
    Upon which he relinquished those habits.

    There was an Old Man of the West,
    Who wore a pale plum-colored vest;
    When they said, "Does it fit?" he replied, "Not a bit!"
    That uneasy Old Man of the West.

    There was an Old Man of Marseilles,
    Whose daughters wore bottle-green veils:
    They caught several Fish, which they put in a dish,
    And sent to their Pa at Marseilles.

    There was an Old Man of the Wrekin,
    Whose shoes made a horrible creaking;
    But they said, "Tell us whether your shoes are of leather,
    Or of what, you Old Man of the Wrekin?"

    There was a Young Lady whose nose
    Was so long that it reached to her toes;
    So she hired an Old Lady, whose conduct was steady,
    To carry that wonderful nose.

    There was a Young Lady of Norway,
    Who casually sat in a doorway;
    When the door squeezed her flat, she exclaimed, "What of that?"
    This courageous Young Lady of Norway.

    There was an Old Man of Apulia,
    Whose conduct was very peculiar;
    He fed twenty sons upon nothing but buns,
    That whimsical Man of Apulia.

    There was an Old Man of Quebec,--
    A beetle ran over his neck;
    But he cried, "With a needle I'll slay you, O beadle!"
    That angry Old Man of Quebec.

    There was a Young Lady of Bute,
    Who played on a silver-gilt flute;
    She played several jigs to her Uncle's white Pigs:
    That amusing Young Lady of Bute.

    There was an Old Person of Philoe,
    Whose conduct was scroobious and wily;
    He rushed up a Palm when the weather was calm,
    And observed all the ruins of Philoe.

    There was an Old Man with a poker,
    Who painted his face with red ochre.
    When they said, "You 're a Guy!" he made no reply,
    But knocked them all down with his poker.

    There was an Old Person of Prague,
    Who was suddenly seized with the plague;
    But they gave him some butter, which caused him to mutter,
    And cured that Old Person of Prague.

    There was an Old Man of Peru,
    Who watched his wife making a stew;
    But once, by mistake, in a stove she did bake
    That unfortunate Man of Peru.

    There was an Old Man of the North,
    Who fell into a basin of broth;
    But a laudable cook fished him out with a hook,
    Which saved that Old Man of the North.

    There was an Old Person of Troy,
    Whose drink was warm brandy and soy,
    Which he took with a spoon, by the light of the moon,
    In sight of the city of Troy.

    There was an Old Person of Mold,
    Who shrank from sensations of cold;
    So he purchased some muffs, some furs, and some fluffs,
    And wrapped himself well from the cold.

    There was an Old Person of Tring,
    Who embellished his nose with a ring;
    He gazed at the moon every evening in June,
    That ecstatic Old Person of Tring.

    There was an Old Man of Nepaul,
    From his horse had a terrible fall;
    But, though split quite in two, with some very strong glue
    They mended that man of Nepaul.

    There was an Old Man of the Nile,
    Who sharpened his nails with a file,
    Till he cut off his thumbs, and said calmly, "This comes
    Of sharpening one's nails with a file!"

    There was an Old Man of th' Abruzzi,
    So blind that he couldn't his foot see;
    When they said, "That's your toe," he replied, "Is it so?"
    That doubtful Old Man of th' Abruzzi.

    There was an Old Man of Calcutta,
    Who perpetually ate bread and butter;
    Till a great bit of muffin, on which he was stuffing,
    Choked that horrid Old Man of Calcutta.

    There was an Old Person of Rhodes,
    Who strongly objected to toads;
    He paid several cousins to catch them by dozens,
    That futile Old Person of Rhodes.

    There was an Old Man of the South,
    Who had an immoderate mouth;
    But in swallowing a dish that was quite full of Fish,
    He was choked, that Old Man of the South.

    There was an Old Man of Melrose,
    Who walked on the tips of his toes;
    But they said, "It ain't pleasant to see you at present,
    You stupid Old Man of Melrose."

    There was an Old Man of the Dee,
    Who was sadly annoyed by a Flea;
    When he said, "I will scratch it!" they gave him a hatchet,
    Which grieved that Old Man of the Dee.

    There was a Young Lady of Lucca,
    Whose lovers completely forsook her;
    She ran up a tree, and said "Fiddle-de-dee!"
    Which embarrassed the people of Lucca.

    There was an Old Man of Coblenz,
    The length of whose legs was immense;
    He went with one prance from Turkey to France,
    That surprising Old Man of Coblenz.

    There was an Old Man of Bohemia,
    Whose daughter was christened Euphemia;
    But one day, to his grief, she married a thief,
    Which grieved that Old Man of Bohemia.

    There was an Old Man of Corfu,
    Who never knew what he should do;
    So he rushed up and down, till the sun made him brown,
    That bewildered Old Man of Corfu.

    There was an Old Man of Vesuvius,
    Who studied the works of Vitruvius;
    When the flames burnt his book, to drinking he took,
    That morbid Old Man of Vesuvius.

    There was an Old Man of Dundee,
    Who frequented the top of a tree;
    When disturbed by the Crows, he abruptly arose,
    And exclaimed, "I'll return to Dundee!"

    There was an Old Lady whose folly
    Induced her to sit in a holly;
    Whereon, by a thorn her dress being torn,
    She quickly became melancholy.

    There was an Old Man on some rocks,
    Who shut his Wife up in a box:
    When she said, "Let me out," he exclaimed, "Without doubt
    You will pass all your life in that box."

    There was an Old Person of Rheims,
    Who was troubled with horrible dreams;
    So to keep him awake they fed him with cake,
    Which amused that Old Person of Rheims.

    There was an Old Man of Leghorn,
    The smallest that ever was born;
    But quickly snapt up he was once by a Puppy,
    Who devoured that Old Man of Leghorn.

    There was an Old Man in a pew,
    Whose waistcoat was spotted with blue;
    But he tore it in pieces, to give to his Nieces,
    That cheerful Old Man in a pew.

    There was an Old Man of Jamaica,
    Who suddenly married a Quaker;
    But she cried out, "Oh, lack! I have married a black!"
    Which distressed that Old Man of Jamaica.

    There was an Old Man who said, "How
    Shall I flee from this horrible Cow?
    I will sit on this stile, and continue to smile,
    Which may soften the heart of that Cow."

    There was a Young Lady of Troy,
    Whom several large flies did annoy;
    Some she killed with a thump, some she drowned at the pump,
    And some she took with her to Troy.

    There was a Young Lady of Hull,
    Who was chased by a virulent Bull;
    But she seized on a spade, and called out, "Who's afraid?"
    Which distracted that virulent Bull.

    There was an Old Person of Dutton,
    Whose head was as small as a button;
    So to make it look big he purchased a wig,
    And rapidly rushed about Dutton.

    There was an Old Man who said, "Hush!
    I perceive a young bird in this bush!"
    When they said, "Is it small?" he replied, "Not at all;
    It is four times as big as the bush!"

    There was a Young Lady of Russia,
    Who screamed so that no one could hush her;
    Her screams were extreme,--no one heard such a scream
    As was screamed by that Lady of Russia.

    There was a Young Lady of Tyre,
    Who swept the loud chords of a lyre;
    At the sound of each sweep she enraptured the deep,
    And enchanted the city of Tyre.

    There was an Old Person of Bangor,
    Whose face was distorted with anger;
    He tore off his boots, and subsisted on roots,
    That borascible Person of Bangor.

    There was an Old Man of the East,
    Who gave all his children a feast;
    But they all ate so much, and their conduct was such,
    That it killed that Old Man of the East.

    There was an Old Man of the Coast,
    Who placidly sat on a post;
    But when it was cold he relinquished his hold,
    And called for some hot buttered toast.

    There was an Old Man of Kamschatka,
    Who possessed a remarkably fat Cur;
    His gait and his waddle were held as a model
    To all the fat dogs in Kamschatka.

    There was an Old Person of Gretna,
    Who rushed down the crater of Etna;
    When they said, "Is it hot?" he replied, "No, it's not!"
    That mendacious Old Person of Gretna.

    There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who sat on a Horse when he reared;
    But they said, "Never mind! you will fall off behind,
    You propitious Old Man with a beard!"

    There was an Old Man of Berlin,
    Whose form was uncommonly thin;
    Till he once, by mistake, was mixed up in a cake,
    So they baked that Old Man of Berlin.

    There was an Old Man of the West,
    Who never could get any rest;
    So they set him to spin on his nose and his chin,
    Which cured that Old Man of the West.

    There was an Old Person of Cheadle
    Was put in the stocks by the Beadle
    For stealing some pigs, some coats, and some wigs,
    That horrible person of Cheadle.

    There was an Old Person of Anerley,
    Whose conduct was strange and unmannerly;
    He rushed down the Strand with a Pig in each hand,
    But returned in the evening to Anerley.

    There was a Young Lady of Wales,
    Who caught a large Fish without scales;
    When she lifted her hook, she exclaimed, "Only look!"
    That ecstatic Young Lady of Wales.

    There was a Young Lady of Welling,
    Whose praise all the world was a-telling;
    She played on the harp, and caught several Carp,
    That accomplished Young Lady of Welling.

    There was an Old Person of Tartary,
    Who divided his jugular artery;
    But he screeched to his Wife, and she said, "Oh, my life!
    Your death will be felt by all Tartary!"

    There was an Old Man of Whitehaven,
    Who danced a quadrille with a Raven;
    But they said, "It's absurd to encourage this bird!"
    So they smashed that Old Man of Whitehaven.

    There was a Young Lady of Sweden,
    Who went by the slow train to Weedon;
    When they cried, "Weedon Station!" she made no observation,
    But thought she should go back to Sweden.

    There was an Old Person of Chester,
    Whom several small children did pester;
    They threw some large stones, which broke most of his bones,
    And displeased that Old Person of Chester.

    There was an Old Man of the Cape,
    Who possessed a large Barbary Ape;
    Till the Ape, one dark night, set the house all alight,
    Which burned that Old Man of the Cape.

    There was an Old Person of Burton,
    Whose answers were rather uncertain;
    When they said, "How d' ye do?" he replied, "Who are you?"
    That distressing Old Person of Burton.

    There was an Old Person of Ems
    Who casually fell in the Thames;
    And when he was found, they said he was drowned,
    That unlucky Old Person of Ems.

    There was a Young Girl of Majorca,
    Whose Aunt was a very fast walker;
    She walked seventy miles, and leaped fifteen stiles,
    Which astonished that Girl of Majorca.

    There was a Young Lady of Poole,
    Whose soup was excessively cool;
    So she put it to boil by the aid of some oil,
    That ingenious Young Lady of Poole.

    There was an Old Lady of Prague,
    Whose language was horribly vague;
    When they said, "Are these caps?" she answered, "Perhaps!"
    That oracular Lady of Prague.

    There was a Young Lady of Parma,
    Whose conduct grew calmer and calmer:
    When they said, "Are you dumb?" she merely said, "Hum!"
    That provoking Young Lady of Parma.

    There was an Old Person of Sparta,
    Who had twenty-five sons and one "darter;"
    He fed them on Snails, and weighed them in scales,
    That wonderful Person of Sparta.

    There was an Old Man on whose nose
    Most birds of the air could repose;
    But they all flew away at the closing of day,
    Which relieved that Old Man and his nose.

    There was a Young Lady of Turkey,
    Who wept when the weather was murky;
    When the day turned out fine, she ceased to repine,
    That capricious Young Lady of Turkey.

    There was an Old Man of Aosta
    Who possessed a large Cow, but he lost her;
    But they said, "Don't you see she has run up a tree,
    You invidious Old Man of Aosta?"

    There was a Young Person of Crete,
    Whose toilette was far from complete;
    She dressed in a sack spickle-speckled with black,
    That ombliferous Person of Crete.

    There was a Young Lady of Clare,
    Who was madly pursued by a Bear;
    When she found she was tired, she abruptly expired,
    That unfortunate Lady of Clare.

    There was a Young Lady of Dorking,
    Who bought a large bonnet for walking;
    But its color and size so bedazzled her eyes,
    That she very soon went back to Dorking.

    There was an Old Man of Cape Horn,
    Who wished he had never been born;
    So he sat on a Chair till he died of despair,
    That dolorous Man of Cape Horn.

    There was an old Person of Cromer,
    Who stood on one leg to read Homer;
    When he found he grew stiff, he jumped over the cliff,
    Which concluded that Person of Cromer.

    There was an Old Man of the Hague,
    Whose ideas were excessively vague;
    He built a balloon to examine the moon,
    That deluded Old Man of the Hague.

    There was an Old Person of Spain,
    Who hated all trouble and pain;
    So he sate on a chair with his feet in the air,
    That umbrageous Old Person of Spain.

    There was an Old Man who said, "Well!
    Will _nobody_ answer this bell?
    I have pulled day and night, till my hair has grown white,
    But nobody answers this bell!"

    There was an Old Man with an Owl,
    Who continued to bother and howl;
    He sat on a rail, and imbibed bitter ale,
    Which refreshed that Old Man and his Owl.

    There was an Old Man in a casement,
    Who held up his hands in amazement;
    When they said, "Sir, you'll fall!" he replied, "Not at all!"
    That incipient Old Man in a casement.

    There was an Old Person of Ewell,
    Who chiefly subsisted on gruel;
    But to make it more nice, he inserted some Mice,
    Which refreshed that Old Person of Ewell.

    There was an Old Man of Peru.
    Who never knew what he should do;
    So he tore off his hair, and behaved like a bear,
    That intrinsic Old Man of Peru.

    There was an Old Man with a beard,
    Who said, "It is just as I feared!--
    Two Owls and a Hen, four Larks and a Wren,
    Have all built their nests in my beard."

    There was a Young Lady whose eyes
    Were unique as to color and size;
    When she opened them wide, people all turned aside,
    And started away in surprise.

    There was a Young Lady of Ryde,
    Whose shoe-strings were seldom untied;
    She purchased some clogs, and some small spotty Dogs,
    And frequently walked about Ryde.

    There was a Young Lady whose bonnet
    Came untied when the birds sate upon it;
    But she said, "I don't care! all the birds in the air
    Are welcome to sit on my bonnet!"

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE SONGS

Stories, Botany, and Alphabets

by

EDWARD LEAR.

With One Hundred and Fifty Illustrations

CONTENTS.

    NONSENSE SONGS.
        THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT
        THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO
        THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY
        THE JUMBLIES
        THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS
        CALICO PIE
        MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW
        THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS THE TABLE AND THE
        CHAIR

    NONSENSE STORIES.
        THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD
        THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE

    NONSENSE COOKERY

    NONSENSE BOTANY

NONSENSE SONGS.

THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT.

                    I.

    The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
      In a beautiful pea-green boat:
    They took some honey, and plenty of money
      Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
    The Owl looked up to the stars above,
      And sang to a small guitar,
   "O lovely Pussy, O Pussy, my love,
        What a beautiful Pussy you are,
          You are,
          You are!
      What a beautiful Pussy you are!"

                    II.

    Pussy said to the Owl, "You elegant fowl,
      How charmingly sweet you sing!
    Oh! let us be married; too long we have tarried:
      But what shall we do for a ring?"
    They sailed away, for a year and a day,
      To the land where the bong-tree grows;
    And there in a wood a Piggy-wig stood,
      With a ring at the end of his nose,
          His nose,
          His nose,
      With a ring at the end of his nose.

                    III.

    "Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
      Your ring?" Said the Piggy, "I will."
    So they took it away, and were married next day
      By the Turkey who lives on the hill.
    They dined on mince and slices of quince,
      Which they ate with a runcible spoon;
    And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
      They danced by the light of the moon,
          The moon,
          The moon,
    They danced by the light of the moon.

THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO.

                    I.

    Said the Duck to the Kangaroo,
       "Good gracious! how you hop
    Over the fields, and the water too,
        As if you never would stop!
    My life is a bore in this nasty pond;
    And I long to go out in the world beyond:
        I wish I could hop like you,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

                    II.

   "Please give me a ride on your back,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo:
   "I would sit quite still, and say nothing but 'Quack'
        The whole of the long day through;
    And we 'd go the Dee, and the Jelly Bo Lee,
    Over the land, and over the sea:
        Please take me a ride! oh, do!"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

                    III.

    Said the Kangaroo to the Duck,
       "This requires some little reflection.
    Perhaps, on the whole, it might bring me luck;
        And there seems but one objection;
    Which is, if you'll let me speak so bold,
    Your feet are unpleasantly wet and cold,
        And would probably give me the roo-
        Matiz," said the Kangaroo.

                    IV.

    Said the Duck, "As I sate on the rocks,
        I have thought over that completely;
    And I bought four pairs of worsted socks,
        Which fit my web-feet neatly;
    And, to keep out the cold, I've bought a cloak;
    And every day a cigar I'll smoke;
        All to follow my own dear true
        Love of a Kangaroo."

                    V.

    Said the Kangaroo, "I'm ready,
        All in the moonlight pale;
    But to balance me well, dear Duck, sit steady,
        And quite at the end of my tail."
    So away they went with a hop and a bound;
    And they hopped the whole world three times round.
        And who so happy, oh! who,
        As the Duck and the Kangaroo?

THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY.

                    I.

    Once Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
        Dressed in brown and gray,
    Walked about upon the sands
        Upon a summer's day:
    And there among the pebbles,
        When the wind was rather cold,
    He met with Mr. Floppy Fly,
        All dressed in blue and gold;
    And, as it was too soon to dine,
    They drank some periwinkle-wine,
    And played an hour or two, or more,
    At battlecock and shuttledore.

                    II.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        To Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "Why do you never come to court?
        I wish you 'd tell me why.
    All gold and shine, in dress so fine,
        You'd quite delight the court.
    Why do you never go at all?
        I really think you _ought_.
    And, if you went, you'd see such sights!
    Such rugs and jugs and candle-lights!
    And, more than all, the king and queen,--
    One in red, and one in green."

                    III.

    "O Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "It's true I never go to court;
        And I will tell you why.
    If I had six long legs like yours,
        At once I'd go to court;
    But, oh! I can't, because _my_ legs
        Are so extremely short.
    And I'm afraid the king and queen
    (One in red, and one in green)
    Would say aloud, 'You are not fit,
    You Fly, to come to court a bit!'"

                    IV.

    "Oh, Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "I wish you 'd sing one little song,
        One mumbian melody.
    You used to sing so awful well
        In former days gone by;
    But now you never sing at all:
        I wish you'd tell me why:
    For, if you would, the silvery sound
    Would please the shrimps and cockles round,
    And all the crabs would gladly come
    To hear you sing, 'Ah, Hum di Hum!'"

                    V.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
       "I can never sing again;
    And, if you wish, I'll tell you why,
        Although it gives me pain.
    For years I cannot hum a bit,
        Or sing the smallest song;
    And this the dreadful reason is,--
        My legs are grown too long!
    My six long legs, all here and there,
    Oppress my bosom with despair;
    And, if I stand or lie or sit,
    I cannot sing one single bit!"

                    VI.

    So Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Sat down in silence by the sea,
        And gazed upon the sky.
    They said, "This is a dreadful thing!
        The world has all gone wrong,
    Since one has legs too short by half,
        The other much too long.
    One never more can go to court,
    Because his legs have grown too short;
    The other cannot sing a song,
    Because his legs have grown too long!"

                    VII.

    Then Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Rushed downward to the foamy sea
        With one sponge-taneous cry:
    And there they found a little boat,
        Whose sails were pink and gray;
    And off they sailed among the waves,
        Far and far away:
    They sailed across the silent main,
    And reached the great Gromboolian Plain;
    And there they play forevermore
    At battlecock and shuttledore.

THE JUMBLIES.

                    I.

    They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
        In a sieve they went to sea:
    In spite of all their friends could say,
    On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
        In a sieve they went to sea.
    And when the sieve turned round and round,
    And every one cried, "You'll all be drowned!"
    They called aloud, "Our sieve ain't big;
    But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
        In a sieve we'll go to sea!"
             Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
             Their heads are green, and their hands are blue
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     II.

    They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
        In a sieve they sailed so fast,
    With only a beautiful pea-green veil
    Tied with a ribbon, by way of a sail,
        To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
    And every one said who saw them go,
   "Oh! won't they be soon upset, you know?
    For the sky is dark, and the voyage is long;
    And, happen what may, it's extremely wrong
        In a sieve to sail so fast."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     III.

    The water it soon came in, it did;
        The water it soon came in:
    So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
        In a pinky paper all folded neat;
    And they fastened it down with a pin.
    And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
    And each of them said, "How wise we are!
    Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
    Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
        While round in our sieve we spin."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     IV.

    And all night long they sailed away;
        And when the sun went down,
    They whistled and warbled a moony song
        To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
    In the shade of the mountains brown.
   "O Timballoo! How happy we are
    When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
    And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
    We sail away with a pea-green sail
        In the shade of the mountains brown."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     V.

    They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
        To a land all covered with trees:
    And they bought an owl, and a useful cart,
        And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
    And a hive of silvery bees;
    And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
    And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
    And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
        And no end of Stilton cheese.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     VI.

    And in twenty years they all came back,--
        In twenty years or more;
    And every one said, "How tall they've grown!
        For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
    And the hills of the Chankly Bore."
    And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
    Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
    And every one said, "If we only live,
    We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
        To the hills of the Chankly Bore."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS.

                     I.

    The Nutcrackers sate by a plate on the table;
        The Sugar-tongs sate by a plate at his side;
    And the Nutcrackers said, "Don't you wish we were able
        Along the blue hills and green meadows to ride?
    Must we drag on this stupid existence forever,
        So idle and weary, so full of remorse,
    While every one else takes his pleasure, and never
        Seems happy unless he is riding a horse?

                     II.

    "Don't you think we could ride without being instructed,
        Without any saddle or bridle or spur?
    Our legs are so long, and so aptly constructed,
        I'm sure that an accident could not occur.
    Let us all of a sudden hop down from the table,
        And hustle downstairs, and each jump on a horse!
    Shall we try? Shall we go? Do you think we are able?"
        The Sugar-tongs answered distinctly, "Of course!"

                     III.

    So down the long staircase they hopped in a minute;
        The Sugar-tongs snapped, and the Crackers said "Crack!"
    The stable was open; the horses were in it:
        Each took out a pony, and jumped on his back.
    The Cat in a fright scrambled out of the doorway;
        The Mice tumbled out of a bundle of hay;
    The brown and white Rats, and the black ones from Norway,
        Screamed out, "They are taking the horses away!"

                     IV.

    The whole of the household was filled with amazement:
        The Cups and the Saucers danced madly about;
    The Plates and the Dishes looked out of the casement;
        The Salt-cellar stood on his head with a shout;
    The Spoons, with a clatter, looked out of the lattice;
        The Mustard-pot climbed up the gooseberry-pies;
    The Soup-ladle peeped through a heap of veal-patties,
        And squeaked with a ladle-like scream of surprise.

                     V.

    The Frying-pan said, "It's an awful delusion!"
        The Tea-kettle hissed, and grew black in the face;
    And they all rushed downstairs in the wildest confusion
        To see the great Nutcracker-Sugar-tong race.
    And out of the stable, with screamings and laughter
        (Their ponies were cream-colored, speckled with brown),
    The Nutcrackers first, and the Sugar-tongs after;
        Rode all round the yard, and then all round the town.

                     VI.

    They rode through the street, and they rode by the station;
        They galloped away to the beautiful shore;
    In silence they rode, and "made no observation,"
        Save this: "We will never go back any more!"
    And still you might hear, till they rode out of hearing,
        The Sugar-tongs snap, and the Crackers say "Crack!"
    Till, far in the distance their forms disappearing,
        They faded away; and they never came back!

CALICO PIE.

                     I.

      Calico pie,
      The little birds fly
    Down to the calico-tree:
      Their wings were blue,
      And they sang "Tilly-loo!"
      Till away they flew;
        And they never came back to me!
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me!

                     II.

      Calico jam,
      The little Fish swam
    Over the Syllabub Sea.
      He took off his hat
      To the Sole and the Sprat,
      And the Willeby-wat:
        But he never came back to me;
          He never came back,
          He never came back,
        He never came back to me.

                     III.

      Calico ban,
      The little Mice ran
    To be ready in time for tea;
      Flippity flup,
      They drank it all up,
      And danced in the cup:
        But they never came back to me;
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me.

                     IV.

      Calico drum,
      The Grasshoppers come,
    The Butterfly, Beetle, and Bee,
      Over the ground,
      Around and round,
      With a hop and a bound;
        But they never came back,
          They never came back,
          They never came back.
        They never came back to me.

MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW.

                     I.

    On a little piece of wood
    Mr. Spikky Sparrow stood:
    Mrs. Sparrow sate close by,
    A-making of an insect-pie
    For her little children five,
    In the nest and all alive;
    Singing with a cheerful smile,
    To amuse them all the while,
       "Twikky wikky wikky wee,
        Wikky bikky twikky tee,
            Spikky bikky bee!"

                     II.

    Mrs. Spikky Sparrow said,
    "Spikky, darling! in my head
    Many thoughts of trouble come,
    Like to flies upon a plum.
    All last night, among the trees,
    I heard you cough, I heard you sneeze;
    And thought I, 'It's come to that
    Because he does not wear a hat!'
        Chippy wippy sikky tee,
        Bikky wikky tikky mee,
            Spikky chippy wee!

                     III.

    "Not that you are growing old;
    But the nights are growing cold.
    No one stays out all night long
    Without a hat: I'm sure it's wrong!"
    Mr. Spikky said, "How kind,
    Dear, you are, to speak your mind!
    All your life I wish you luck!
    You are, you are, a lovely duck!
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twitchy witchy witchy bee,
            Tikky tikky tee!

                     IV.

    "I was also sad, and thinking,
    When one day I saw you winking,
    And I heard you sniffle-snuffle,
    And I saw your feathers ruffle:
    To myself I sadly said,
    'She's neuralgia in her head!
    That dear head has nothing on it!
    Ought she not to wear a bonnet?'
        Witchy kitchy kitchy wee,
        Spikky wikky mikky bee,
            Chippy wippy chee!

                     V.

    "Let us both fly up to town:
    There I'll buy you such a gown!
    Which, completely in the fashion,
    You shall tie a sky-blue sash on;
    And a pair of slippers neat
    To fit your darling little feet,
    So that you will look and feel
    Quite galloobious and genteel.
        Jikky wikky bikky see,
        Chicky bikky wikky bee,
            Twicky witchy wee!"

                     VI.

    So they both to London went,
    Alighting on the Monument;
    Whence they flew down swiftly--pop!
    Into Moses' wholesale shop:
    There they bought a hat and bonnet,
    And a gown with spots upon it,
    A satin sash of Cloxam blue,
    And a pair of slippers too.
        Zikky wikky mikky bee,
        Witchy witchy mitchy kee,
            Sikky tikky wee!

                     VII.

    Then, when so completely dressed,
    Back they flew, and reached their nest.
    Their children cried, "O ma and pa!
    How truly beautiful you are!"
    Said they, "We trust that cold or pain
    We shall never feel again;
    While, perched on tree or house or steeple,
    We now shall look like other people.
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twikky mikky bikky bee,
            Zikky sikky tee!"

THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS.

                     I.

    The Broom and the Shovel, the Poker and Tongs,
      They all took a drive in the Park;
    And they each sang a song, ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
      Before they went back in the dark.
    Mr. Poker he sate quite upright in the coach;
      Mr. Tongs made a clatter and clash;
    Miss Shovel was dressed all in black (with a brooch);
      Mrs. Broom was in blue (with a sash).
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        And they all sang a song.

                     II.

   "O Shovely so lovely!" the Poker he sang,
     "You have perfectly conquered my heart.
    Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong! If you're pleased with my song,
      I will feed you with cold apple-tart.
    When you scrape up the coals with a delicate sound,
      You enrapture my life with delight,
    Your nose is so shiny, your head is so round,
      And your shape is so slender and bright!
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        Ain't you pleased with my song?"

                     III.

   "Alas! Mrs. Broom," sighed the Tongs in his song,
     "Oh! is it because I'm so thin,
    And my legs are so long,--ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!--
      That you don't care about me a pin?
    Ah! fairest of creatures, when sweeping the room,
      Ah! why don't you heed my complaint?
    Must you needs be so cruel, you beautiful Broom,
      Because you are covered with paint?
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        You are certainly wrong."

                     IV.

    Mrs. Broom and Miss Shovel together they sang,
     "What nonsense you're singing to-day!"
    Said the Shovel, "I'll certainly hit you a bang!"
      Said the Broom, "And I'll sweep you away!"
    So the coachman drove homeward as fast as he could,
      Perceiving their anger with pain;
    But they put on the kettle, and little by little
      They all became happy again.
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        There's an end of my song.

THE TABLE AND THE CHAIR.

                     I.

    Said the Table to the Chair,
    "You can hardly be aware
    How I suffer from the heat
    And from chilblains on my feet.
    If we took a little walk,
    We might have a little talk;
    Pray let us take the air,"
    Said the Table to the Chair.

                     II.

    Said the Chair unto the Table,
    "Now, you _know_ we are not able:
    How foolishly you talk,
    When you know we _cannot_ walk!"
    Said the Table with a sigh,
    "It can do no harm to try.
    I've as many legs as you:
    Why can't we walk on two?"

                     III.

    So they both went slowly down,
    And walked about the town
    With a cheerful bumpy sound
    As they toddled round and round;
    And everybody cried,
    As they hastened to their side,
    "See! the Table and the Chair
    Have come out to take the air!"

                     IV.

    But in going down an alley,
    To a castle in a valley,
    They completely lost their way,
    And wandered all the day;
    Till, to see them safely back,
    They paid a Ducky-quack,
    And a Beetle, and a Mouse,
    Who took them to their house.

                     V.

    Then they whispered to each other,
    "O delightful little brother,
    What a lovely walk we've taken!
    Let us dine on beans and bacon."
    So the Ducky and the leetle
    Browny-Mousy and the Beetle
    Dined, and danced upon their heads
    Till they toddled to their beds.

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE STORIES.

THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD.

Once upon a time, a long while ago, there were four little people whose
names were

VIOLET, SLINGSBY, GUY, and LIONEL;
and they all thought they should like to see the world. So they bought a
large boat to sail quite round the world by sea, and then they were to come
back on the other side by land. The boat was painted blue with green spots,
and the sail was yellow with red stripes: and, when they set off, they only
took a small Cat to steer and look after the boat, besides an elderly
Quangle-Wangle, who had to cook the dinner and make the tea; for which
purposes they took a large kettle.

For the first ten days they sailed on beautifully, and found plenty to eat,
as there were lots of fish; and they had only to take them out of the sea
with a long spoon, when the Quangle-Wangle instantly cooked them; and the
Pussy-Cat was fed with the bones, with which she expressed herself pleased,
on the whole: so that all the party were very happy.

During the daytime, Violet chiefly occupied herself in putting salt water
into a churn; while her three brothers churned it violently, in the hope
that it would turn into butter, which it seldom if ever did; and in the
evening they all retired into the tea-kettle, where they all managed to
sleep very comfortably, while Pussy and the Quangle-Wangle managed the
boat.

After a time, they saw some land at a distance; and, when they came to it,
they found it was an island made of water quite surrounded by earth.
Besides that, it was bordered by evanescent isthmuses, with a great
gulf-stream running about all over it; so that it was perfectly beautiful,
and contained only a single tree, 503 feet high.

When they had landed, they walked about, but found, to their great
surprise, that the island was quite full of veal-cutlets and
chocolate-drops, and nothing else. So they all climbed up the single high
tree to discover, if possible, if there were any people; but having
remained on the top of the tree for a week, and not seeing anybody, they
naturally concluded that there were no inhabitants; and accordingly, when
they came down, they loaded the boat with two thousand veal-cutlets and a
million of chocolate-drops; and these afforded them sustenance for more
than a month, during which time they pursued their voyage with the utmost
delight and apathy.

After this they came to a shore where there were no less than sixty-five
great red parrots with blue tails, sitting on a rail all of a row, and all
fast asleep. And I am sorry to say that the Pussy-Cat and the
Quangle-Wangle crept softly, and bit off the tail-feathers of all the
sixty-five parrots; for which Violet reproved them both severely.

Notwithstanding which, she proceeded to insert all the feathers--two
hundred and sixty in number--in her bonnet; thereby causing it to have a
lovely and glittering appearance, highly prepossessing and efficacious.

The next thing that happened to them was in a narrow part of the sea, which
was so entirely full of fishes that the boat could go on no farther: so
they remained there about six weeks, till they had eaten nearly all the
fishes, which were soles, and all ready-cooked, and covered with
shrimp-sauce, so that there was no trouble whatever. And as the few fishes
who remained uneaten complained of the cold, as well as of the difficulty
they had in getting any sleep on account of the extreme noise made by the
arctic bears and the tropical turnspits, which frequented the neighborhood
in great numbers, Violet most amiably knitted a small woollen frock for
several of the fishes, and Slingsby administered some opium-drops to them;
through which kindness they became quite warm, and slept soundly.

Then they came to a country which was wholly covered with immense
orange-trees of a vast size, and quite full of fruit. So they all landed,
taking with them the tea-kettle, intending to gather some of the oranges,
and place them in it. But, while they were busy about this, a most
dreadfully high wind rose, and blew out most of the parrot-tail feathers
from Violet's bonnet. That, however, was nothing compared with the calamity
of the oranges falling down on their heads by millions and millions, which
thumped and bumped and bumped and thumped them all so seriously, that they
were obliged to run as hard as they could for their lives; besides that the
sound of the oranges rattling on the tea-kettle was of the most fearful and
amazing nature.

Nevertheless, they got safely to the boat, although considerably vexed and
hurt; and the Quangle-Wangle's right foot was so knocked about, that he had
to sit with his head in his slipper for at least a week.

This event made them all for a time rather melancholy: and perhaps they
might never have become less so, had not Lionel, with a most praiseworthy
devotion and perseverance, continued to stand on one leg, and whistle to
them in a loud and lively manner; which diverted the whole party so
extremely that they gradually recovered their spirits, and agreed that
whenever they should reach home, they would subscribe towards a testimonial
to Lionel, entirely made of gingerbread and raspberries, as an earnest
token of their sincere and grateful infection.

After sailing on calmly for several more days, they came to another
country, where they were much pleased and surprised to see a countless
multitude of white Mice with red eyes, all sitting in a great circle,
slowly eating custard-pudding with the most satisfactory and polite
demeanor.

And as the four travellers were rather hungry, being tired of eating
nothing but soles and oranges for so long a period, they held a council as
to the propriety of asking the Mice for some of their pudding in a humble
and affecting manner, by which they could hardly be otherwise than
gratified. It was agreed, therefore, that Guy should go and ask the Mice,
which he immediately did; and the result was, that they gave a walnut-shell
only half full of custard diluted with water. Now, this displeased Guy, who
said, "Out of such a lot of pudding as you have got, I must say, you might
have spared a somewhat larger quantity." But no sooner had he finished
speaking than the Mice turned round at once, and sneezed at him in an
appalling and vindictive manner (and it is impossible to imagine a more
scroobious and unpleasant sound than that caused by the simultaneous
sneezing of many millions of angry Mice); so that Guy rushed back to the
boat, having first shied his cap into the middle of the custard-pudding, by
which means he completely spoiled the Mice's dinner.

By and by the four children came to a country where there were no houses,
but only an incredibly innumerable number of large bottles without corks,
and of a dazzling and sweetly susceptible blue color. Each of these blue
bottles contained a Blue-Bottle-Fly; and all these interesting animals live
continually together in the most copious and rural harmony: nor perhaps in
many parts of the world is such perfect and abject happiness to be found.
Violet and Slingsby and Guy and Lionel were greatly struck with this
singular and instructive settlement; and, having previously asked
permission of the Blue-Bottle-Flies (which was most courteously granted),
the boat was drawn up to the shore, and they proceeded to make tea in front
of the bottles: but as they had no tea-leaves, they merely placed some
pebbles in the hot water; and the Quangle-Wangle played some tunes over it
on an accordion, by which, of course, tea was made directly, and of the
very best quality.

The four children then entered into conversation with the
Blue-Bottle-Flies, who discoursed in a placid and genteel manner, though
with a slightly buzzing accent, chiefly owing to the fact that they each
held a small clothes-brush between their teeth, which naturally occasioned
a fizzy, extraneous utterance.

"Why," said Violet, "would you kindly inform us, do you reside in bottles;
and, if in bottles at all, why not, rather, in green or purple, or, indeed,
in yellow bottles?"

To which questions a very aged Blue-Bottle-Fly answered, "We found the
bottles here all ready to live in; that is to say, our great-great-great-
great-great-grandfathers did: so we occupied them at once. And, when the
winter comes on, we turn the bottles upside down, and consequently rarely
feel the cold at all; and you know very well that this could not be the
case with bottles of any other color than blue."

"Of course it could not," said Slingsby. "But, if we may take the liberty
of inquiring, on what do you chiefly subsist?"

"Mainly on oyster-patties," said the Blue-Bottle-Fly; "and, when these are
scarce, on raspberry vinegar and Russian leather boiled down to a jelly."

"How delicious!" said Guy.

To which Lionel added, "Huzz!" And all the Blue-Bottle-Flies said, "Buzz!"

At this time, an elderly Fly said it was the hour for the evening-song to
be sung; and, on a signal being given, all the Blue-Bottle-Flies began to
buzz at once in a sumptuous and sonorous manner, the melodious and
mucilaginous sounds echoing all over the waters, and resounding across the
tumultuous tops of the transitory titmice upon the intervening and verdant
mountains with a serene and sickly suavity only known to the truly
virtuous. The Moon was shining slobaciously from the star-bespangled sky,
while her light irrigated the smooth and shiny sides and wings and backs of
the Blue-Bottle-Flies with a peculiar and trivial splendor, while all
Nature cheerfully responded to the cerulean and conspicuous circumstances.

In many long-after years, the four little travellers looked back to that
evening as one of the happiest in all their lives; and it was already past
midnight when--the sail of the boat having been set up by the
Quangle-Wangle, the tea-kettle and churn placed in their respective
positions, and the Pussy-Cat stationed at the helm--the children each took
a last and affectionate farewell of the Blue-Bottle-Flies, who walked down
in a body to the water's edge to see the travellers embark.

As a token of parting respect and esteem, Violet made a courtesy quite down
to the ground, and stuck one of her few remaining parrot-tail feathers into
the back hair of the most pleasing of the Blue-Bottle-Flies; while
Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel offered them three small boxes, containing,
respectively, black pins, dried figs, and Epsom salts; and thus they left
that happy shore forever.

Overcome by their feelings, the four little travellers instantly jumped
into the tea-kettle, and fell fast asleep. But all along the shore, for
many hours, there was distinctly heard a sound of severely-suppressed sobs,
and of a vague multitude of living creatures using their
pocket-handkerchiefs in a subdued simultaneous snuffle, lingering sadly
along the walloping waves as the boat sailed farther and farther away from
the Land of the Happy Blue-Bottle-Flies.

Nothing particular occurred for some days after these events, except that,
as the travellers were passing a low tract of sand, they perceived an
unusual and gratifying spectacle; namely, a large number of Crabs and
Crawfish--perhaps six or seven hundred--sitting by the water-side, and
endeavoring to disentangle a vast heap of pale pink worsted, which they
moistened at intervals with a fluid composed of lavender-water and
white-wine negus.

"Can we be of any service to you, O crusty Crabbies?" said the four
children.

"Thank you kindly," said the Crabs consecutively. "We are trying to make
some worsted mittens, but do not know how."

On which Violet, who was perfectly acquainted with the art of
mitten-making, said to the Crabs, "Do your claws unscrew, or are they
fixtures?"

"They are all made to unscrew," said the Crabs; and forthwith they
deposited a great pile of claws close to the boat, with which Violet
uncombed all the pale pink worsted, and then made the loveliest mittens
with it you can imagine. These the Crabs, having resumed and screwed on
their claws, placed cheerfully upon their wrists, and walked away rapidly
on their hind-legs, warbling songs with a silvery voice and in a minor key.

After this, the four little people sailed on again till they came to a vast
and wide plain of astonishing dimensions, on which nothing whatever could
be discovered at first; but, as the travellers walked onward, there
appeared in the extreme and dim distance a single object, which on a nearer
approach, and on an accurately cutaneous inspection, seemed to be somebody
in a large white wig, sitting on an arm-chair made of sponge-cakes and
oyster-shells. "It does not quite look like a human being," said Violet
doubtfully; nor could they make out what it really was, till the
Quangle-Wangle (who had previously been round the world) exclaimed softly
in a loud voice, "It is the co-operative Cauliflower!"

And so, in truth, it was: and they soon found that what they had taken for
an immense wig was in reality the top of the Cauliflower; and that he had
no feet at all, being able to walk tolerably well with a fluctuating and
graceful movement on a single cabbage-stalk,--an accomplishment which
naturally saved him the expense of stockings and shoes.

Presently, while the whole party from the boat was gazing at him with
mingled affection and disgust, he suddenly arose, and, in a somewhat
plumdomphious manner, hurried off towards the setting sun,--his steps
supported by two superincumbent confidential Cucumbers, and a large number
of Waterwagtails proceeding in advance of him by three and three in a
row,--till he finally disappeared on the brink of the western sky in a
crystal cloud of sudorific sand.

So remarkable a sight, of course, impressed the four children very deeply;
and they returned immediately to their boat with a strong sense of
undeveloped asthma and a great appetite.

Shortly after this, the travellers were obliged to sail directly below some
high overhanging rocks, from the top of one of which a particularly odious
little boy, dressed in rose-colored knickerbockers, and with a pewter plate
upon his head, threw an enormous pumpkin at the boat, by which it was
instantly upset.

But this upsetting was of no consequence, because all the party knew how to
swim very well: and, in fact, they preferred swimming about till after the
moon rose; when, the water growing chilly, they sponge-taneously entered
the boat. Meanwhile the Quangle-Wangle threw back the pumpkin with immense
force, so that it hit the rocks where the malicious little boy in
rose-colored knickerbockers was sitting; when, being quite full of
lucifer-matches, the pumpkin exploded surreptitiously into a thousand bits;
whereon the rocks instantly took fire, and the odious little boy became
unpleasantly hotter and hotter and hotter, till his knickerbockers were
turned quite green, and his nose was burnt off.

Two or three days after this had happened, they came to another place,
where they found nothing at all except some wide and deep pits full of
mulberry-jam. This is the property of the tiny, yellow-nosed Apes who
abound in these districts, and who store up the mulberry-jam for their food
in winter, when they mix it with pellucid pale periwinkle-soup, and serve
it out in wedgewood china-bowls, which grow freely all over that part of
the country. Only one of the yellow-nosed Apes was on the spot, and he was
fast asleep; yet the four travellers and the Quangle-Wangle and Pussy were
so terrified by the violence and sanguinary sound of his snoring, that they
merely took a small cupful of the jam, and returned to re-embark in their
boat without delay.

What was their horror on seeing the boat (including the churn and the
tea-kettle) in the mouth of an enormous Seeze Pyder, an aquatic and
ferocious creature truly dreadful to behold, and, happily, only met with in
those excessive longitudes! In a moment, the beautiful boat was bitten into
fifty-five thousand million hundred billion bits; and it instantly became
quite clear that Violet, Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel could no longer
preliminate their voyage by sea.

The four travellers were therefore obliged to resolve on pursuing their
wanderings by land: and, very fortunately, there happened to pass by at
that moment an elderly Rhinoceros, on which they seized; and, all four
mounting on his back,--the Quangle-Wangle sitting on his horn, and holding
on by his ears, and the Pussy-Cat swinging at the end of his tail,--they
set off, having only four small beans and three pounds of mashed potatoes
to last through their whole journey.

They were, however, able to catch numbers of the chickens and turkeys and
other birds who incessantly alighted on the head of the Rhinoceros for the
purpose of gathering the seeds of the rhododendron-plants which grew
there; and these creatures they cooked in the most translucent and
satisfactory manner by means of a fire lighted on the end of the
Rhinoceros's back. A crowd of Kangaroos and gigantic Cranes accompanied
them, from feelings of curiosity and complacency; so that they were never
at a loss for company, and went onward, as it were, in a sort of profuse
and triumphant procession.

Thus in less than eighteen weeks they all arrived safely at home, where
they were received by their admiring relatives with joy tempered with
contempt, and where they finally resolved to carry out the rest of their
travelling-plans at some more favorable opportunity.

As for the Rhinoceros, in token of their grateful adherence, they had him
killed and stuffed directly, and then set him up outside the door of their
father's house as a diaphanous doorscraper.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF
THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

In former days,--that is to say, once upon a time,--there lived in the Land
of Gramble-Blamble seven families. They lived by the side of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple (one of the seven families, indeed, lived _in_ the lake), and
on the outskirts of the city of Tosh, which, excepting when it was quite
dark, they could see plainly. The names of all these places you have
probably heard of; and you have only not to look in your geography-books to
find out all about them.

Now, the seven families who lived on the borders of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple were as follows in the next chapter.

CHAPTER II.

THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

There was a family of two old Parrots and seven young Parrots.

There was a family of two old Storks and seven young Storks.

There was a family of two old Geese and seven young Geese.

There was a family of two old Owls and seven young Owls.

There was a family of two old Guinea Pigs and seven young Guinea Pigs.

There was a family of two old Cats and seven young Cats.

And there was a family of two old Fishes and seven young Fishes.

CHAPTER III.

THE HABITS OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

The Parrots lived upon the Soffsky-Poffsky trees, which were beautiful to
behold, and covered with blue leaves; and they fed upon fruit, artichokes,
and striped beetles.

The Storks walked in and out of the Lake Pipple-Popple, and ate frogs for
breakfast, and buttered toast for tea; but on account of the extreme length
of their legs they could not sit down, and so they walked about
continually.

The Geese, having webs to their feet, caught quantities of flies, which
they ate for dinner.

The Owls anxiously looked after mice, which they caught, and made into
sago-puddings.

The Guinea Pigs toddled about the gardens, and ate lettuces and Cheshire
cheese.

The Cats sate still in the sunshine, and fed upon sponge biscuits.

The Fishes lived in the lake, and fed chiefly on boiled periwinkles.

And all these seven families lived together in the utmost fun and felicity.

CHAPTER IV.

THE CHILDREN OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES ARE SENT AWAY.

One day all the seven fathers and the seven mothers of the seven families
agreed that they would send their children out to see the world.

So they called them all together, and gave them each eight shillings and
some good advice, some chocolate-drops, and a small green morocco
pocket-book to set down their expenses in.

They then particularly entreated them not to quarrel; and all the parents
sent off their children with a parting injunction.

"If," said the old Parrots, "you find a cherry, do not fight about who
should have it."

"And," said the old Storks, "if you find a frog, divide it carefully into
seven bits, but on no account quarrel about it."

And the old Geese said to the seven young Geese, "Whatever you do, be sure
you do not touch a plum-pudding flea."

And the old Owls said, "If you find a mouse, tear him up into seven slices,
and eat him cheerfully, but without quarrelling."

And the old Guinea Pigs said, "Have a care that you eat your lettuces,
should you find any, not greedily, but calmly."

And the old Cats said, "Be particularly careful not to meddle with a
clangle-wangle if you should see one."

And the old Fishes said, "Above all things, avoid eating a blue boss-woss;
for they do not agree with fishes, and give them a pain in their toes."

So all the children of each family thanked their parents; and, making in
all forty-nine polite bows, they went into the wide world.

CHAPTER V.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG PARROTS.

The seven young Parrots had not gone far, when they saw a tree with a
single cherry on it, which the oldest Parrot picked instantly; but the
other six, being extremely hungry, tried to get it also. On which all the
seven began to fight; and they
scuffled,
     and huffled,
       and ruffled,
         and shuffled,
           and puffled,
             and muffled,
               and buffled,
                 and duffled,
                   and fluffled,
                     and guffled,
                       and bruffled,
                         and screamed, and shrieked, and squealed,
and squeaked, and clawed, and snapped, and bit, and bumped, and thumped,
and dumped, and flumped each other, till they were all torn into little
bits; and at last there was nothing left to record this painful incident
except the cherry and seven small green feathers.

And that was the vicious and voluble end of the seven young Parrots.

CHAPTER VI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG STORKS.

When the seven young Storks set out, they walked or flew for fourteen weeks
in a straight line, and for six weeks more in a crooked one; and after that
they ran as hard as they could for one hundred and eight miles; and after
that they stood still, and made a himmeltanious chatter-clatter-blattery
noise with their bills.

About the same time they perceived a large frog, spotted with green, and
with a sky-blue stripe under each ear.

So, being hungry, they immediately flew at him, and were going to divide
him into seven pieces, when they began to quarrel as to which of his legs
should be taken off first. One said this, and another said that; and while
they were all quarrelling, the frog hopped away. And when they saw that he
was gone, they began to
  chatter-clatter,
      blatter-platter,
          patter-blatter,
              matter-clatter,
                  flatter-quatter,
more violently than ever; and after they
had fought for a week, they pecked each other all to little pieces, so that
at last nothing was left of any of them except their bills.

And that was the end of the seven young Storks.

CHAPTER VII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GEESE.

When the seven young Geese began to travel, they went over a large plain,
on which there was but one tree, and that was, a very bad one.

So four of them went up to the top of it, and looked about them; while the
other three waddled up and down, and repeated poetry, and their last six
lessons in arithmetic, geography, and cookery.

Presently they perceived, a long way off, an object of the most interesting
and obese appearance, having a perfectly round body exactly resembling a
boiled plum-pudding, with two little wings, and a beak, and three feathers
growing out of his head, and only one leg.

So, after a time, all the seven young Geese said to each other, "Beyond all
doubt this beast must be a Plum-pudding Flea!"

On which they incautiously began to sing aloud,

       "Plum-pudding Flea,
        Plum-pudding Flea,
        Wherever you be,
        Oh! come to our tree,
    And listen, oh! listen, oh! listen to me!"

And no sooner had they sung this verse than the Plum-pudding Flea began to
hop and skip on his one leg with the most dreadful velocity, and came
straight to the tree, where he stopped, and looked about him in a vacant
and voluminous manner.

On which the seven young Geese were greatly alarmed, and all of a
tremble-bemble: so one of them put out his long neck, and just touched him
with the tip of his bill; but no sooner had he done this than the
Plum-pudding Flea skipped and hopped about more and more, and higher and
higher; after which he opened his mouth, and, to the great surprise and
indignation of the seven Geese, began to bark so loudly and furiously and
terribly, that they were totally unable to bear the noise; and by degrees
every one of them suddenly tumbled down quite dead.

So that was the end of the seven young Geese.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG OWLS.

When the seven young Owls set out, they sate every now and then on the
branches of old trees, and never went far at one time.

And one night, when it was quite dark, they thought they heard a mouse;
but, as the gas-lamps were not lighted, they could not see him.

So they called out, "Is that a mouse?"

On which a mouse answered, "Squeaky-peeky-weeky! yes, it is!"

And immediately all the young Owls threw themselves off the tree, meaning
to alight on the ground; but they did not perceive that there was a large
well below them, into which they all fell superficially, and were every one
of them drowned in less than half a minute.

So that was the end of the seven young Owls.

CHAPTER IX.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GUINEA PIGS.

The seven young Guinea Pigs went into a garden full of goose-berry-bushes
and tiggory-trees, under one of which they fell asleep. When they awoke,
they saw a large lettuce, which had grown out of the ground while they had
been sleeping, and which had an immense number of green leaves. At which
they all exclaimed,--

   "Lettuce! O lettuce
    Let us, O let us,
    O lettuce-leaves,
    O let us leave this tree, and eat
    Lettuce, O let us, lettuce-leaves!"

And instantly the seven young Guinea Pigs rushed with such extreme force
against the lettuce-plant, and hit their heads so vividly against its
stalk, that the concussion brought on directly an incipient transitional
inflammation of their noses, which grew worse and worse and worse and
worse, till it incidentally killed them all seven.

And that was the end of the seven young Guinea Pigs.

CHAPTER X.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG CATS.

The seven young Cats set off on their travels with great delight and
rapacity. But, on coming to the top of a high hill, they perceived at a
long distance off a Clangle-Wangle (or, as it is more properly written,
Clangel-Wangel); and, in spite of the warning they had had, they ran
straight up to it.

(Now, the Clangle-Wangle is a most dangerous and delusive beast, and by no
means commonly to be met with. They live in the water as well as on land,
using their long tail as a sail when in the former element. Their speed is
extreme; but their habits of life are domestic and superfluous, and their
general demeanor pensive and pellucid. On summer evenings, they may
sometimes be observed near the Lake Pipple-Popple, standing on their heads,
and humming their national melodies. They subsist entirely on vegetables,
excepting when they eat veal or mutton or pork or beef or fish or
saltpetre.)

The moment the Clangle-Wangle saw the seven young Cats approach, he ran
away; and as he ran straight on for four months, and the Cats, though they
continued to run, could never overtake him, they all gradually _died_ of
fatigue and exhaustion, and never afterwards recovered.

And this was the end of the seven young Cats.

CHAPTER XI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG FISHES.

The seven young Fishes swam across the Lake Pipple-Popple, and into the
river, and into the ocean; where, most unhappily for them, they saw, on the
fifteenth day of their travels, a bright-blue Boss-Woss, and instantly swam
after him. But the Blue Boss-Woss plunged into a
    perpendicular,
        spicular,
            orbicular,
                quadrangular,
                     circular depth of soft mud;
where, in fact, his house was.

And the seven young Fishes, swimming with great and uncomfortable velocity,
plunged also into the mud quite against their will, and, not being
accustomed to it, were all suffocated in a very short period.

And that was the end of the seven young Fishes.

CHAPTER XII.

OF WHAT OCCURRED SUBSEQUENTLY.

After it was known that the

            seven young Parrots,
    and the seven young Storks,
    and the seven young Geese,
    and the seven young Owls,
    and the seven young Guinea Pigs,
    and the seven young Cats,
    and the seven young Fishes,

were all dead, then the Frog, and the Plum-pudding Flea, and the Mouse, and
the Clangle-Wangle, and the Blue Boss-Woss, all met together to rejoice
over their good fortune. And they collected the seven feathers of the seven
young Parrots, and the seven bills of the seven young Storks, and the
lettuce, and the cherry; and having placed the latter on the lettuce, and
the other objects in a circular arrangement at their base, they danced a
hornpipe round all these memorials until they were quite tired; after which
they gave a tea-party, and a garden-party, and a ball, and a concert, and
then returned to their respective homes full of joy and respect, sympathy,
satisfaction, and disgust.

CHAPTER XIII.

OF WHAT BECAME OF THE PARENTS OF THE FORTY-NINE CHILDREN.

BUT when the two old Parrots,
     and the two old Storks,
     and the two old Geese,
     and the two old Owls,
     and the two old Guinea Pigs,
     and the two old Cats,
     and the two old Fishes,

became aware, by reading in the newspapers, of the calamitous extinction of
the whole of their families, they refused all further sustenance; and,
sending out to various shops, they purchased great quantities of Cayenne
pepper and brandy and vinegar and blue sealing-wax, besides seven immense
glass bottles with air-tight stoppers. And, having done this, they ate a
light supper of brown-bread and Jerusalem artichokes, and took an
affecting and formal leave of the whole of their acquaintance, which was
very numerous and distinguished and select and responsible and ridiculous.

CHAPTER XIV.

CONCLUSION.

And after this they filled the bottles with the ingredients for pickling,
and each couple jumped into a separate bottle; by which effort, of course,
they all died immediately, and became thoroughly pickled in a few minutes;
having previously made their wills (by the assistance of the most eminent
lawyers of the district), in which they left strict orders that the
stoppers of the seven bottles should be carefully sealed up with the blue
sealing-wax they had purchased; and that they themselves, in the bottles,
should be presented to the principal museum of the city of Tosh, to be
labelled with parchment or any other anti-congenial succedaneum, and to be
placed on a marble table with silver-gilt legs, for the daily inspection
and contemplation, and for the perpetual benefit, of the pusillanimous
public.

And if you ever happen to go to Gramble-Blamble, and visit that museum in
the city of Tosh, look for them on the ninety-eighth table in the four
hundred and twenty-seventh room of the right-hand corridor of the left wing
of the central quadrangle of that magnificent building; for, if you do not,
you certainly will not see them.

       *        *        *        *        *

                 NONSENSE COOKERY.

Extract from "The Nonsense Gazette," for August, 1870.

"Our readers will be interested in the following communications from our
valued and learned contributor, Prof. Bosh, whose labors in the fields of
culinary and botanical science are so well known to all the world. The
first three articles richly merit to be added to the domestic cookery of
every family: those which follow claim the attention of all botanists; and
we are happy to be able, through Dr. Bosh's kindness, to present our
readers with illustrations of his discoveries. All the new flowers are
found in the Valley of Verrikwier, near the Lake of Oddgrow, and on the
summit of the Hill Orfeltugg."

THREE RECEIPTS FOR DOMESTIC COOKERY.

TO MAKE AN AMBLONGUS PIE.

Take 4 pounds (say 4-1/2 pounds) of fresh Amblongusses, and put them in a
small pipkin.

Cover them with water, and boil them for 8 hours incessantly; after which
add 2 pints of new milk, and proceed to boil for 4 hours more.

When you have ascertained that the Amblongusses are quite soft, take them
out, and place them in a wide pan, taking care to shake them well
previously.

Grate some nutmeg over the surface, and cover them carefully with powdered
gingerbread, curry-powder, and a sufficient quantity of Cayenne pepper.

Remove the pan into the next room, and place it on the floor. Bring it back
again, and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Shake the pan
violently till all the Amblongusses have become of a pale purple color.

Then, having prepared the paste, insert the whole carefully; adding at the
same time a small pigeon, 2 slices of beef, 4 cauliflowers, and any number
of oysters.

Watch patiently till the crust begins to rise, and add a pinch of salt from
time to time.

Serve up in a clean dish, and throw the whole out of window as fast as
possible.

TO MAKE CRUMBOBBLIOUS CUTLETS.

Procure some strips of beef, and, having cut them into the smallest
possible slices, proceed to cut them still smaller,--eight, or perhaps
nine times.

When the whole is thus minced, brush it up hastily with a new
clothes-brush, and stir round rapidly and capriciously with a salt-spoon
or a soup-ladle.

Place the whole in a saucepan, and remove it to a sunny place,--say the
roof of the house, if free from sparrows or other birds,--and leave it
there for about a week.

At the end of that time add a little lavender, some oil of almonds, and a
few herring-bones; and then cover the whole with 4 gallons of clarified
Crumbobblious sauce, when it will be ready for use.

Cut it into the shape of ordinary cutlets, and serve up in a clean
table-cloth or dinner-napkin.

TO MAKE GOSKY PATTIES.

Take a pig three or four years of age, and tie him by the off hind-leg to a
post. Place 5 pounds of currants, 3 of sugar, 2 pecks of peas, 18 roast
chestnuts, a candle, and 6 bushels of turnips, within his reach: if he eats
these, constantly provide him with more.

Then procure some cream, some slices of Cheshire cheese, 4 quires of
foolscap paper, and a packet of black pins. Work the whole into a paste,
and spread it out to dry on a sheet of clean brown waterproof linen.

When the paste is perfectly dry, but not before, proceed to beat the pig
violently with the handle of a large broom. If he squeals, beat him again.

Visit the paste and beat the pig alternately for some days, and ascertain
if, at the end of that period, the whole is about to turn into Gosky
Patties.

If it does not then, it never will; and in that case the pig may be let
loose, and the whole process may be considered as finished.

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE BOTANY.

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE ALPHABETS.

            A

    A was an ant
    Who seldom stood still,
    And who made a nice house
    In the side of a hill.

            a!
     Nice little ant!

            B

    B was a book
    With a binding of blue,
    And pictures and stories
    For me and for you.

            b!
     Nice little book!

            C

    C was a cat
    Who ran after a rat;
    But his courage did fail
    When she seized on his tail.

            c!
      Crafty old cat!

            D

    D was a duck
    With spots on his back,
    Who lived in the water,
    And always said "Quack!"

            d!
      Dear little duck!

            E

    E was an elephant,
    Stately and wise:
    He had tusks and a trunk,
    And two queer little eyes.

            e!
    Oh, what funny small eyes!

            F

    F was a fish
    Who was caught in a net;
    But he got out again,
    And is quite alive yet.

            f!
      Lively young fish!

            G

    G was a goat
    Who was spotted with brown:
    When he did not lie still
    He walked up and down.

            g!
      Good little goat!

            H

    H was a hat
    Which was all on one side;
    Its crown was too high,
    And its brim was too wide.

            h!
      Oh, what a hat!

            I

    I was some ice
    So white and so nice,
    But which nobody tasted;
    And so it was wasted.

            i!
    All that good ice!

            J

    J was a jackdaw
    Who hopped up and down
    In the principal street
    Of a neighboring town.

            j!
     All through the town!

            K

    K was a kite
    Which flew out of sight,
    Above houses so high,
    Quite into the sky.

            k
       Fly away, kite!

            L

    L was a light
    Which burned all the night,
    And lighted the gloom
    Of a very dark room.

            l!
     Useful nice light!

            M

    M was a mill
    Which stood on a hill,
    And turned round and round
    With a loud hummy sound.

            m!
      Useful old mill!

            N

    N was a net
    Which was thrown in the sea
    To catch fish for dinner
    For you and for me.

            n!
      Nice little net!

            O

    O was an orange
    So yellow and round:
    When it fell off the tree,
    It fell down to the ground.

            o!
    Down to the ground!

            P

    P was a pig,
    Who was not very big;
    But his tail was too curly,
    And that made him surly.

            p!
    Cross little pig!

            Q

    Q was a quail
    With a very short tail;
    And he fed upon corn
    In the evening and morn.

            q!
    Quaint little quail!

            R

    R was a rabbit,
    Who had a bad habit
    Of eating the flowers
    In gardens and bowers.

            r!
     Naughty fat rabbit!

            S

    S was the sugar-tongs,
    Nippity-nee,
    To take up the sugar
    To put in our tea.

            s!
       Nippity-nee!

            T

    T was a tortoise,
    All yellow and black:
    He walked slowly away,
    And he never came back.

            t!
    Torty never came back!

            U

    U was an urn
    All polished and bright,
    And full of hot water
    At noon and at night.

            u!
     Useful old urn!

            V

    V was a villa
    Which stood on a hill,
    By the side of a river,
    And close to a mill.

            v!
    Nice little villa!

            W

    W was a whale
    With a very long tail,
    Whose movements were frantic
    Across the Atlantic.

            w!
   Monstrous old whale!

            X

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who, more than all Turks, is
    Renowned for his fashion
    Of fury and passion.

            x!
    Angry old Xerxes!

            Y

    Y was a yew,
    Which flourished and grew
    By a quiet abode
    Near the side of a road.

            y!
     Dark little yew!

            Z

    Z was some zinc,
    So shiny and bright,
    Which caused you to wink
    In the sun's merry light.

            z!
       Beautiful zinc!

            A

            a

    A was once an apple-pie,
        Pidy,
        Widy,
        Tidy,
        Pidy,
      Nice insidy,
      Apple-pie!

            B

            b

    B was once a little bear,
        Beary,
        Wary,
        Hairy,
        Beary,
      Taky cary,
      Little bear!

            C

            c

    C was once a little cake,
        Caky,
        Baky,
        Maky,
        Caky,
      Taky caky,
      Little cake!

            D

            d

    D was once a little doll,
        Dolly,
        Molly,
        Polly,
        Nolly,
      Nursy dolly,
      Little doll!

            E

            e

    E was once a little eel,
        Eely,
        Weely,
        Peely,
        Eely,
      Twirly, tweely,
        Little eel!

            F

            f

    F was once a little fish,
        Fishy,
        Wishy,
        Squishy,
        Fishy,
      In a dishy,
      Little fish!

            G

            g

    G was once a little goose,
        Goosy,
        Moosy,
        Boosey,
        Goosey,
      Waddly-woosy,
      Little goose!

            H

            h

    H was once a little hen,
        Henny,
        Chenny,
        Tenny,
        Henny.
      Eggsy-any,
      Little hen?

            I

            i

    I was once a bottle of ink
        Inky,
        Dinky,
        Thinky,
        Inky,
      Blacky minky,
      Bottle of ink!

            J

            j

    J was once a jar of jam,
        Jammy,
        Mammy,
        Clammy,
        Jammy,
      Sweety, swammy,
        Jar of jam!

            K

            k

    K was once a little kite,
        Kity,
        Whity,
        Flighty,
        Kity,
      Out of sighty,
        Little kite!

            L

            l

    L was once a little lark,
        Larky,
        Marky,
        Harky,
        Larky,
      In the parky,
      Little lark!

            M

            m

    M was once a little mouse,
        Mousy,
        Bousy,
        Sousy,
        Mousy,
      In the housy,
      Little mouse!

            N

            n

    N was once a little needle,
        Needly,
        Tweedly,
        Threedly,
        Needly,
      Wisky, wheedly,
      Little needle!

            O

            o

    O was once a little owl,
        Owly,
        Prowly,
        Howly,
        Owly,
      Browny fowly,
      Little owl!

            P

            p

    P was once a little pump,
        Pumpy,
        Slumpy,
        Flumpy,
        Pumpy,
      Dumpy, thumpy,
        Little pump!

            Q

            q

    Q was once a little quail,
        Quaily,
        Faily,
        Daily,
        Quaily,
      Stumpy-taily,
      Little quail!

            R

            r

    R was once a little rose,
        Rosy,
        Posy,
        Nosy,
        Rosy,
     Blows-y, grows-y,
       Little rose!

            S

            s

    S was once a little shrimp,
        Shrimpy,
        Nimpy,
        Flimpy,
        Shrimpy.
     Jumpy, jimpy,
      Little shrimp!

            T

            t

    T was once a little thrush,
        Thrushy,
        Hushy,
        Bushy,
        Thrushy,
      Flitty, flushy,
      Little thrush!

            U

            u

    U was once a little urn,
           Urny,
           Burny,
           Turny,
           Urny,
      Bubbly, burny,
        Little urn!

            V

            v

    V was once a little vine,
        Viny,
        Winy,
        Twiny,
        Viny,
      Twisty-twiny,
      Little vine!

            W

            w

    W was once a whale,
        Whaly,
        Scaly,
        Shaly,
        Whaly,
      Tumbly-taily,
      Mighty whale!

            X

            x

    X was once a great king Xerxes,
          Xerxy,
          Perxy,
          Turxy,
          Xerxy,
        Linxy, lurxy,
      Great King Xerxes!

            Y

            y

    Y was once a little yew,
        Yewdy,
        Fewdy,
        Crudy,
        Yewdy,
    Growdy, grewdy,
      Little yew!

            Z

            z

    Z was once a piece of zinc,
        Tinky,
        Winky,
        Blinky,
        Tinky,
      Tinkly minky,
      Piece of zinc!

            A

    A was an ape,
    Who stole some white tape,
    And tied up his toes
    In four beautiful bows.

            a!

    Funny old ape!

            B

    B was a bat,
    Who slept all the day,
    And fluttered about
    When the sun went away.

            b!

    Brown little bat!

            C

    C was a camel:
    You rode on his hump;
    And if you fell off,
    You came down such a bump!

            c!

    What a high camel!

            D

    D was a dove,
    Who lived in a wood,
    With such pretty soft wings,
    And so gentle and good!

            d!

    Dear little dove!

            E

    E was an eagle,
    Who sat on the rocks,
    And looked down on the fields
    And the-far-away flocks.

            e!

    Beautiful eagle!

            F

    F was a fan
    Made of beautiful stuff;
    And when it was used,
    It went puffy-puff-puff!

            f!

    Nice little fan!

            G

    G was a gooseberry,
    Perfectly red;
    To be made into jam,
    And eaten with bread.

            g!

    Gooseberry red!

            H

    H was a heron,
    Who stood in a stream:
    The length of his neck
    And his legs was extreme.

            h!

    Long-legged heron!

            I

    I was an inkstand,
    Which stood on a table,
    With a nice pen to write with
    When we are able.

            i!

    Neat little inkstand!

            J

    J was a jug,
    So pretty and white,
    With fresh water in it
    At morning and night.

            j!

    Nice little jug!

            K

    K was a kingfisher:
    Quickly he flew,
    So bright and so pretty!--
    Green, purple, and blue.

            k!

    Kingfisher blue!

            L

    L was a lily,
    So white and so sweet!
    To see it and smell it
    Was quite a nice treat.

            l!

    Beautiful lily!

            M

    M was a man,
    Who walked round and round;
    And he wore a long coat
    That came down to the ground.

            m!

    Funny old man!

            N

    N was a nut
    So smooth and so brown!
    And when it was ripe,
    It fell tumble-dum-down.

            n!

    Nice little nut!

            O

    O was an oyster,
    Who lived in his shell:
    If you let him alone,
    He felt perfectly well.

            o!

    Open-mouthed oyster!

            P

    P was a polly,
    All red, blue, and green,--
    The most beautiful polly
    That ever was seen.

            p!

    Poor little polly!

            Q

    Q was a quill
    Made into a pen;
    But I do not know where,
    And I cannot say when.

            q!

    Nice little quill!

            R

    R was a rattlesnake,
    Rolled up so tight,
    Those who saw him ran quickly,
    For fear he should bite.

            r!

    Rattlesnake bite!

            S

    S was a screw
    To screw down a box;
    And then it was fastened
    Without any locks.

            s!

    Valuable screw!

            T

    T was a thimble,
    Of silver so bright!
    When placed on the finger,
    It fitted so tight!

            t!

    Nice little thimble!

            U

    U was an upper-coat,
    Woolly and warm,
    To wear over all
    In the snow or the storm.

            u!

    What a nice upper-coat!

            V

    V was a veil
    With a border upon it,
    And a ribbon to tie it
    All round a pink bonnet.

            v!

    Pretty green veil!

            W

    W was a watch,
    Where, in letters of gold,
    The hour of the day
    You might always behold.

            w!

    Beautiful watch!

            X

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who wore on his head
    A mighty large turban,
    Green, yellow, and red.

            x!

    Look at King Xerxes!

            Y

    Y was a yak,
    From the land of Thibet:
    Except his white tail,
    He was all black as jet.

            y!

    Look at the yak!

            Z

    Z was a zebra,
    All striped white and black;
    And if he were tame,
    You might ride on his back.

            z!

    Pretty striped zebra!

       *        *        *        *        *

MORE NONSENSE

Pictures, Rhymes, Botany, etc.

by

EDWARD LEAR

CONTENTS.

  NONSENSE BOTANY

  ONE HUNDRED NONSENSE PICTURES AND RHYMES

  TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES

INTRODUCTION.

In offering this little book--the third of its kind--to the public, I am
glad to take the opportunity of recording the pleasure I have received at
the appreciation its predecessors have met with, as attested by their wide
circulation, and by the universally kind notices of them from the Press. To
have been the means of administering innocent mirth to thousands, may
surely be a just motive for satisfaction, and an excuse for grateful
expression.

At the same time, I am desirous of adding a few words as to the history of
the two previously published volumes, and more particularly of the first or
original "Book of Nonsense," relating to which many absurd reports have
crept into circulation, such as that it was the composition of the late
Lord Brougham, the late Earl of Derby, etc.; that the rhymes and pictures
are by different persons; or that the whole have a symbolical meaning,
etc.; whereas, every one of the Rhymes was composed by myself, and every
one of the Illustrations drawn by my own hand at the time the verses were
made. Moreover, in no portion of these Nonsense drawings have I ever
allowed any caricature of private or public persons to appear, and
throughout, more care than might be supposed has been given to make the
subjects incapable of misinterpretation: "Nonsense," pure and absolute,
having been my aim throughout.

As for the persistently absurd report of the late Earl of Derby being the
author of the "First Book of Nonsense," I may relate an incident which
occurred to me four summers ago, the first that gave me any insight into
the origin of the rumor.

I was on my way from London to Guildford, in a railway carriage,
containing, besides myself, one passenger, an elderly gentleman: presently,
however, two ladies entered, accompanied by two little boys. These, who had
just had a copy of the "Book of Nonsense" given them, were loud in their
delight, and by degrees infected the whole party with their mirth.

"How grateful," said the old gentleman to the two ladies, "all children,
and parents too, ought to be to the statesman who has given his time to
composing that charming book!"

(The ladies looked puzzled, as indeed was I, the author.)

"Do you not know who is the writer of it?" asked the gentleman.

"The name is 'Edward Lear,'" said one of the ladies.

"Ah!" said the first speaker, "so it is printed; but that is only a whim of
the real author, the Earl of Derby. 'Edward' is his Christian name, and, as
you may see, LEAR is only EARL transposed."

"But," said the lady, doubtingly, "here is a dedication to the
great-grandchildren, grand-nephews, and grand-nieces of Edward, thirteenth
Earl of Derby, by the author, Edward Lear."

"That," replied the other, "is simply a piece of mystification; I am in a
position to know that the whole book was composed and illustrated by Lord
Derby himself. In fact, there is no such a person at all as Edward Lear."

"Yet," said the other lady, "some friends of mine tell me they know Mr.
Lear."

"Quite a mistake! completely a mistake!" said the old gentleman, becoming
rather angry at the contradiction; "I am well aware of what I am saying: I
can inform you, no such a person as 'Edward Lear' exists!"

Hitherto I had kept silence; but as my hat was, as well as my handkerchief
and stick, largely marked inside with my name, and as I happened to have in
my pocket several letters addressed to me, the temptation was too great to
resist; so, flashing all these articles at once on my would-be
extinguisher's attention, I speedily reduced him to silence.

The second volume of Nonsense, commencing with the verses, "The Owl and the
Pussy-Cat," was written at different times, and for different sets of
children: the whole being collected in the course of last year, were then
Charing Cross.

The contents of the third or present volume were made also at different
intervals in the last two years.

Long years ago, in days when much of my time was passed in a country house,
where children and mirth abounded, the lines beginning, "There was an old
man of Tobago," were suggested to me by a valued friend, as a form of verse
lending itself to limitless variety for rhymes and pictures; and
thenceforth the greater part of the original drawings and verses for the
first "Book of Nonsense" were struck off with a pen, no assistance ever
having been given me in any way but that of uproarious delight and welcome
at the appearance of every new absurdity.

Most of these Drawings and Rhymes were transferred to lithographic stones
in the year 1846, and were then first published by Mr. Thomas McLean, of
the Haymarket. But that edition having been soon exhausted, and the call
for the "Book of Nonsense" continuing, I added a considerable number of
subjects to those previously-published, and having caused the whole to be
carefully reproduced in woodcuts by Messrs. Dalzell, I disposed of the
copyright to Messrs. Routledge and Warne, by whom the volume was published
in 1843.
                                                              EDWARD LEAR.

VILLA EMILY, SAN REMO,
August, 1871.

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE BOTANY.

       *        *        *        *        *

ONE HUNDRED NONSENSE PICTURES AND RHYMES.

    There was a young person of Bantry,
    Who frequently slept in the pantry;
    When disturbed by the mice, she appeased them with rice,
    That judicious young person of Bantry.

    There was an Old Man at a Junction,
    Whose feelings were wrung with compunction
    When they said, "The Train's gone!" he exclaimed, "How forlorn!"
    But remained on the rails of the Junction.

    There was an old person of Minety,
    Who purchased five hundred and ninety
    Large apples and pears, which he threw unawares
    At the heads of the people of Minety.

    There was an old man of Thermopylae,
    Who never did anything properly;
    But they said, "If you choose to boil eggs in your shoes,
    You shall never remain in Thermopylae."

    There was an old person of Deal,
    Who in walking used only his heel;
    When they said, "Tell us why?" he made no reply,
    That mysterious old person of Deal.

    There was an old man on the Humber,
    Who dined on a cake of Burnt Umber;
    When he said, "It's enough!" they only said, "Stuff!
    You amazing old man on the Humber!"

    There was an old man in a barge,
    Whose nose was exceedingly large;
    But in fishing by night, it supported a light,
    Which helped that old man in a barge.

    There was an old man of Dunrose;
    A parrot seized hold of his nose.
    When he grew melancholy, they said, "His name's Polly,"
    Which soothed that old man of Dunrose.

    There was an old man of Toulouse
    Who purchased a new pair of shoes;
    When they asked, "Are they pleasant?" he said, "Not at present!"
    That turbid old man of Toulouse.

    There was an old person of Bree,
    Who frequented the depths of the sea;
    She nurs'd the small fishes, and washed all the dishes,
    And swam back again into Bree.

    There was an old person of Bromley,
    Whose ways were not cheerful or comely;
    He sate in the dust, eating spiders and crust,
    That unpleasing old person of Bromley.

    There was an old person of Shields,
    Who frequented the vallies and fields;
    All the mice and the cats, and the snakes and the rats,
    Followed after that person of Shields.

    There was an old man of Dunluce,
    Who went out to sea on a goose:
    When he'd gone out a mile, he observ'd with a smile,
    "It is time to return to Dunluce."

    There was an old man of Dee-side
    Whose hat was exceedingly wide,
    But he said, "Do not fail, if it happen to hail,
    To come under my hat at Dee-side!"

    There was an old person in black,
    A Grasshopper jumped on his back;
    When it chirped in his ear, he was smitten with fear,
    That helpless old person in black.

    There was an old man of the Dargle
    Who purchased six barrels of Gargle;
    For he said, "I'll sit still, and will roll them down hill,
    For the fish in the depths of the Dargle."

    There was an old person of Pinner,
    As thin as a lath, if not thinner;
    They dressed him in white, and roll'd him up tight,
    That elastic old person of Pinner.

    There was an old person of China,
    Whose daughters were Jiska and Dinah,
    Amelia and Fluffy, Olivia and Chuffy,
    And all of them settled in China.

    There was an old man in a Marsh,
    Whose manners were futile and harsh;
    He sate on a log, and sang songs to a frog,
    That instructive old man in a Marsh.

    There was an old person of Brill,
    Who purchased a shirt with a frill;
    But they said, "Don't you wish, you mayn't look like a fish,
    You obsequious old person of Brill?"

    There was an old person of Wick,
    Who said, "Tick-a-Tick, Tick-a-Tick;
    Chickabee, Chickabaw." And he said nothing more,
    That laconic old person of Wick.

    There was an old man at a Station,
    Who made a promiscuous oration;
    But they said, "Take some snuff!--You have talk'd quite enough,
    You afflicting old man at a Station!"

    There was an old man of Three Bridges,
    Whose mind was distracted by midges,
    He sate on a wheel, eating underdone veal,
    Which relieved that old man of Three Bridges.

    There was an old man of Hong Kong,
    Who never did anything wrong;
    He lay on his back, with his head in a sack,
    That innocuous old man of Hong Kong.

    There was a young person in green,
    Who seldom was fit to be seen;
    She wore a long shawl, over bonnet and all,
    Which enveloped that person in green.

    There was an old person of Fife,
    Who was greatly disgusted with life;
    They sang him a ballad, and fed him on salad,
    Which cured that old person of Fife.

    There was an old man who screamed out
    Whenever they knocked him about:
    So they took off his boots, and fed him with fruits,
    And continued to knock him about.

    There was a young lady in white,
    Who looked out at the depths of the night;
    But the birds of the air, filled her heart with despair,
    And oppressed that young lady in white.

    There was an old person of Slough,
    Who danced at the end of a bough;
    But they said, "If you sneeze, you might damage the trees,
    You imprudent old person of Slough."

    There was an old person of Down,
    Whose face was adorned with a frown;
    When he opened the door, for one minute or more,
    He alarmed all the people of Down.

    There was a young person in red,
    Who carefully covered her head,
    With a bonnet of leather, and three lines of feather,
    Besides some long ribands of red.

    There was an old person of Hove,
    Who frequented the depths of a grove;
    Where he studied his books, with the wrens and the rooks,
    That tranquil old person of Hove.

    There was a young person in pink,
    Who called out for something to drink;
    But they said, "O my daughter, there's nothing but water!"
    Which vexed that young person in pink.

    There was an old lady of France,
    Who taught little ducklings to dance;
    When she said, "Tick-a-tack!" they only said, "Quack!"
    Which grieved that old lady of France.

    There was an old person of Putney,
    Whose food was roast spiders and chutney,
    Which he took with his tea, within sight of the sea,
    That romantic old person of Putney.

    There was an old person of Loo,
    Who said, "What on earth shall I do?"
    When they said, "Go away!" she continued to stay,
    That vexatious old person of Loo.

    There was an old person of Woking,
    Whose mind was perverse and provoking;
    He sate on a rail, with his head in a pail,
    That illusive old person of Woking.

    There was an old person of Dean
    Who dined on one pea, and one bean;
    For he said, "More than that, would make me too fat,"
    That cautious old person of Dean.

    There was a young lady in blue,
    Who said, "Is it you? Is it you?"
    When they said, "Yes, it is," she replied only, "Whizz!"
    That ungracious young lady in blue.

    There was an old Man in a Garden,
    Who always begged every one's pardon;
    When they asked him, "What for?" he replied, "You're a bore!
    And I trust you'll go out of my garden."

    There was an old person of Pisa,
    Whose daughters did nothing to please her;
    She dressed them in gray, and banged them all day,
    Round the walls of the city of Pisa.

    There was an old person of Florence,
    Who held mutton chops in abhorrence;
    He purchased a Bustard, and fried him in Mustard,
    Which choked that old person of Florence.

    There was an old person of Sheen,
    Whose expression was calm and serene;
    He sate in the water, and drank bottled porter,
    That placid old person of Sheen.

    There was an old person of Ware,
    Who rode on the back of a bear;
    When they ask'd, "Does it trot?" he said, "Certainly not!
    He's a Moppsikon Floppsikon bear!"

    There was a young person of Janina,
    Whose uncle was always a fanning her;
    When he fanned off her head, she smiled sweetly, and said,
    "You propitious old person of Janina!"

    There was an old man of Cashmere,
    Whose movements were scroobious and queer;
    Being slender and tall, he looked over a wall,
    And perceived two fat ducks of Cashmere.

    There was an old person of Cassel,
    Whose nose finished off in a tassel;
    But they call'd out, "Oh well! don't it look like a bell!"
    Which perplexed that old person of Cassel.

    There was an old person of Pett,
    Who was partly consumed by regret;
    He sate in a cart, and ate cold apple tart,
    Which relieved that old person of Pett.

    There was an old man of Spithead,
    Who opened the window, and said,--
    "Fil-jomble, fil-jumble, fil-rumble-come-tumble!"
    That doubtful old man of Spithead.

    There was an old man on the Border,
    Who lived in the utmost disorder;
    He danced with the cat, and made tea in his hat,
    Which vexed all the folks on the Border.

    There was an old man of Dumbree,
    Who taught little owls to drink tea;
    For he said, "To eat mice is not proper or nice,"
    That amiable man of Dumbree.

    There was an old person of Filey,
    Of whom his acquaintance spoke highly;
    He danced perfectly well, to the sound of a bell,
    And delighted the people of Filey.

    There was an old man whose remorse
    Induced him to drink Caper Sauce;
    For they said, "If mixed up with some cold claret-cup,
    It will certainly soothe your remorse!"

    There was an old man of Ibreem,
    Who suddenly threaten'd to scream;
    But they said, "If you do, we will thump you quite blue,
    You disgusting old man of Ibreem!"

    There was an old person of Wilts,
    Who constantly walked upon stilts;
    He wreathed them with lilies and daffy-down-dillies,
    That elegant person of Wilts.

    There was an old person of Grange,
    Whose manners were scroobious and strange;
    He sailed to St. Blubb in a waterproof tub,
    That aquatic old person of Grange.

    There was an old person of Newry,
    Whose manners were tinctured with fury;
    He tore all the rugs, and broke all the jugs,
    Within twenty miles' distance of Newry.

    There was an old man of Dumblane,
    Who greatly resembled a crane;
    But they said, "Is it wrong, since your legs are so long,
    To request you won't stay in Dumblane?"

    There was an old man of Port Grigor,
    Whose actions were noted for vigour;
    He stood on his head till his waistcoat turned red,
    That eclectic old man of Port Grigor.

    There was an old man of El Hums,
    Who lived upon nothing but crumbs,
    Which he picked off the ground, with the other birds round,
    In the roads and the lanes of El Hums.

    There was an old man of West Dumpet,
    Who possessed a large nose like a trumpet;
    When he blew it aloud, it astonished the crowd,
    And was heard through the whole of West Dumpet.

    There was an old person of Sark,
    Who made an unpleasant remark;
    But they said, "Don't you see what a brute you must be,
    You obnoxious old person of Sark!"

    There was an old man whose despair
    Induced him to purchase a hare:
    Whereon one fine day he rode wholly away,
    Which partly assuaged his despair.

    There was an old person of Barnes,
    Whose garments were covered with darns;
    But they said, "Without doubt, you will soon wear them out,
    You luminous person of Barnes!"

    There was an old person of Nice,
    Whose associates were usually Geese.
    They walked out together in all sorts of weather,
    That affable person of Nice!

    There was a young lady of Greenwich,
    Whose garments were border'd with Spinach;
    But a large spotty Calf bit her shawl quite in half,
    Which alarmed that young lady of Greenwich.

    There was an old person of Cannes,
    Who purchased three fowls and a fan;
    Those she placed on a stool, and to make them feel cool
    She constantly fanned them at Cannes.

    There was an old person of Ickley,
    Who could not abide to ride quickly;
    He rode to Karnak on a tortoise's back,
    That moony old person of Ickley.

    There was an old person of Hyde,
    Who walked by the shore with his bride,
    Till a Crab who came near fill'd their bosoms with fear,
    And they said, "Would we'd never left Hyde!"

    There was an old person in gray,
    Whose feelings were tinged with dismay;
    She purchased two parrots, and fed them with carrots,
    Which pleased that old person in gray.

    There was an old man of Ancona,
    Who found a small dog with no owner,
    Which he took up and down all the streets of the town,
    That anxious old man of Ancona.

    There was an old person of Sestri,
    Who sate himself down in the vestry;
    When they said, "You are wrong!" he merely said "Bong!"
    That repulsive old person of Sestri.

    There was an old person of Blythe,
    Who cut up his meat with a scythe;
    When they said, "Well! I never!" he cried, "Scythes for ever!"
    That lively old person of Blythe.

    There was a young person of Ayr,
    Whose head was remarkably square:
    On the top, in fine weather, she wore a gold feather;
    Which dazzled the people of Ayr.

    There was an old person of Rimini,
    Who said, "Gracious! Goodness! O Gimini!"
    When they said, "Please be still!" she ran down a hill,
    And was never more heard of at Rimini.

    There is a young lady, whose nose,
    Continually prospers and grows;
    When it grew out of sight, she exclaimed in a fright,
    "Oh! Farewell to the end of my nose!"

    There was an old person of Ealing,
    Who was wholly devoid of good feeling;
    He drove a small gig, with three Owls and a Pig,
    Which distressed all the people of Ealing.

    There was an old man of Thames Ditton,
    Who called out for something to sit on;
    But they brought him a hat, and said, "Sit upon that,
    You abruptious old man of Thames Ditton!"

    There was an old person of Bray,
    Who sang through the whole of the day
    To his ducks and his pigs, whom he fed upon figs,
    That valuable person of Bray.

    There was a young person whose history
    Was always considered a mystery;
    She sate in a ditch, although no one knew which,
    And composed a small treatise on history.

    There was an old person of Bow,
    Whom nobody happened to know;
    So they gave him some soap, and said coldly, "We hope
    You will go back directly to Bow!"

    There was an old person of Rye,
    Who went up to town on a fly;
    But they said, "If you cough, you are safe to fall off!
    You abstemious old person of Rye!"

    There was an old person of Crowle,
    Who lived in the nest of an owl;
    When they screamed in the nest, he screamed out with the rest,
    That depressing old person of Crowle.

    There was an old Lady of Winchelsea,
    Who said, "If you needle or pin shall see
    On the floor of my room, sweep it up with the broom!"
    That exhaustive old Lady of Winchelsea!

    There was an old man in a tree,
    Whose whiskers were lovely to see;
    But the birds of the air pluck'd them perfectly bare,
    To make themselves nests in that tree.

    There was a young lady of Corsica,
    Who purchased a little brown saucy-cur;
    Which she fed upon ham, and hot raspberry jam,
    That expensive young lady of Corsica.

    There was a young lady of Firle,
    Whose hair was addicted to curl;
    It curled up a tree, and all over the sea,
    That expansive young lady of Firle.

    There was an old person of Stroud,
    Who was horribly jammed in a crowd;
    Some she slew with a kick, some she scrunched with a stick,
    That impulsive old person of Stroud.

    There was an old man of Boulak,
    Who sate on a Crocodile's back;
    But they said, "Towr'ds the night he may probably bite,
    Which might vex you, old man of Boulak!"

    There was an old person of Skye,
    Who waltz'd with a Bluebottle fly:
    They buzz'd a sweet tune, to the light of the moon,
    And entranced all the people of Skye.

    There was an old man of Blackheath,
    Whose head was adorned with a wreath
    Of lobsters and spice, pickled onions and mice,
    That uncommon old man of Blackheath.

    There was an old man, who when little
    Fell casually into a kettle;
    But, growing too stout, he could never get out,
    So he passed all his life in that kettle.

    There was an old person of Dundalk,
    Who tried to teach fishes to walk;
    When they tumbled down dead, he grew weary, and said,
    "I had better go back to Dundalk!"

    There was an old person of Shoreham,
    Whose habits were marked by decorum;
    He bought an Umbrella, and sate in the cellar,
    Which pleased all the people of Shoreham.

    There was an old person of Bar,
    Who passed all her life in a jar,
    Which she painted pea-green, to appear more serene,
    That placid old person of Bar.

    There was a young person of Kew,
    Whose virtues and vices were few;
    But with blamable haste she devoured some hot paste,
    Which destroyed that young person of Kew.

    There was an old person of Jodd,
    Whose ways were perplexing and odd;
    She purchased a whistle, and sate on a thistle,
    And squeaked to the people of Jodd.

    There was an old person of Bude,
    Whose deportment was vicious and crude;
    He wore a large ruff of pale straw-colored stuff,
    Which perplexed all the people of Bude.

    There was an old person of Brigg,
    Who purchased no end of a wig;
    So that only his nose, and the end of his toes,
    Could be seen when he walked about Brigg.

    There was an old man of Messina,
    Whose daughter was named Opsibeena;
    She wore a small wig, and rode out on a pig,
    To the perfect delight of Messina.

TWENTY-SIX NONSENSE RHYMES AND PICTURES.

    The Absolutely Abstemious Ass,
    who resided in a Barrel, and only lived on
    Soda Water and Pickled Cucumbers.

    The Bountiful Beetle,
    who always carried a Green Umbrella when it didn't rain,
    and left it at home when it did.

    The Comfortable Confidential Cow,
    who sate in her Red Morocco Arm Chair and
    toasted her own Bread at the parlour Fire.

    The Dolomphious Duck,
    who caught Spotted Frogs for her dinner
    with a Runcible Spoon.

    The Enthusiastic Elephant,
    who ferried himself across the water with the
    Kitchen Poker and a New pair of Ear-rings.

    The Fizzgiggious Fish,
    who always walked about upon Stilts,
    because he had no legs.

    The Good-natured Grey Gull,
    who carried the Old Owl, and his Crimson Carpet-bag,
    across the river, because he could not swim.

    The Hasty Higgeldipiggledy Hen,
    who went to market in a Blue Bonnet and Shawl,
    and bought a Fish for her Supper.

    The Inventive Indian,
    who caught a Remarkable Rabbit in a
    Stupendous Silver Spoon.

    The Judicious Jubilant Jay,
    who did up her Back Hair every morning with a Wreath of Roses,
    Three feathers, and a Gold Pin.

    The Kicking Kangaroo,
    who wore a Pale Pink Muslin dress
    with Blue spots.

    The Lively Learned Lobster,
    who mended his own Clothes with
    a Needle and Thread.

    The Melodious Meritorious Mouse,
    who played a merry minuet on the
    Piano-forte.

    The Nutritious Newt,
    who purchased a Round Plum-pudding
    for his grand-daughter.

    The Obsequious Ornamental Ostrich,
    who wore Boots to keep his
    feet quite dry.

    The Perpendicular Purple Polly,
    who read the Newspaper and ate Parsnip Pie
    with his Spectacles.

    The Queer Querulous Quail,
    who smoked a Pipe of tobacco on the top of
    a Tin Tea-kettle.

    The Rural Runcible Raven,
    who wore a White Wig and flew away
    with the Carpet Broom.

    The Scroobious Snake,
    who always wore a Hat on his Head, for
    fear he should bite anybody.

    The Tumultuous Tom-tommy Tortoise,
    who beat a Drum all day long in the
    middle of the wilderness.

    The Umbrageous Umbrella-maker,
    whose Face nobody ever saw, because it was
    always covered by his Umbrella.

    The Visibly Vicious Vulture,
    who wrote some Verses to a Veal-cutlet in a
    Volume bound in Vellum.

    The Worrying Whizzing Wasp,
    who stood on a Table, and played sweetly on a
    Flute with a Morning Cap.

    The Excellent Double-extra XX
    imbibing King Xerxes, who lived a
    long while ago.

    The Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
    whose Head was ever so much bigger than his
    Body, and whose Hat was rather small.

    The Zigzag Zealous Zebra,
    who carried five Monkeys on his back all
    the way to Jellibolee.

       *        *        *        *        *

LAUGHABLE LYRICS

A Fourth Book of Nonsense Poems, Songs, Botany, Music, etc.

by

EDWARD LEAR

Author of the _Book of Nonsense_, _More Nonsense_,
_Nonsense Songs, Stories_, etc., etc.

With All the Original Illustrations.

CONTENTS

    LAUGHABLE LYRICS.
        THE DONG WITH A LUMINOUS NOSE
        THE TWO OLD BACHELORS
        THE PELICAN CHORUS
        THE YONGHY-BONGHY-Bo
        THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES
        THE NEW VESTMENTS
        MR. AND MRS. DISCOBBOLOS
        THE QUANGLE WANGLE'S HAT
        THE CUMMERBUND
        THE AKOND OF SWAT

    NONSENSE BOTANY

       *        *        *        *        *

LAUGHABLE LYRICS.

THE DONG WITH A LUMINOUS NOSE.

    When awful darkness and silence reign
    Over the great Gromboolian plain,
        Through the long, long wintry nights;
    When the angry breakers roar
    As they beat on the rocky shore;
        When Storm-clouds brood on the towering heights
    Of the Hills of the Chankly Bore,--

    Then, through the vast and gloomy dark
    There moves what seems a fiery spark,--
        A lonely spark with silvery rays
        Piercing the coal-black night,--
        A Meteor strange and bright:
    Hither and thither the vision strays,
        A single lurid light.

    Slowly it wanders, pauses, creeps,--
    Anon it sparkles, flashes, and leaps;
    And ever as onward it gleaming goes
    A light on the Bong-tree stems it throws.
    And those who watch at that midnight hour
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as the wild light passes along,--
       "The Dong! the Dong!
      The wandering Dong through the forest goes!
        The Dong! the Dong!
      The Dong with a luminous Nose!"

        Long years ago
      The Dong was happy and gay,
    Till he fell in love with a Jumbly Girl
      Who came to those shores one day.
    For the Jumblies came in a sieve, they did,--
    Landing at eve near the Zemmery Fidd
        Where the Oblong Oysters grow,
      And the rocks are smooth and gray.
    And all the woods and the valleys rang
    With the Chorus they daily and nightly sang,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve._"

    Happily, happily passed those days!
      While the cheerful Jumblies staid;
        They danced in circlets all night long,
        To the plaintive pipe of the lively Dong,
      In moonlight, shine, or shade.
    For day and night he was always there
    By the side of the Jumbly Girl so fair,
    With her sky-blue hands and her sea-green hair;
    Till the morning came of that hateful day
    When the Jumblies sailed in their sieve away,
    And the Dong was left on the cruel shore
    Gazing, gazing for evermore,--
    Ever keeping his weary eyes on
    That pea-green sail on the far horizon,--
    Singing the Jumbly Chorus still
    As he sate all day on the grassy hill,--
        "_Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
          Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,
          And they went to sea in a sieve_."

    But when the sun was low in the West,
        The Dong arose and said,--
    "What little sense I once possessed
        Has quite gone out of my head!"
    And since that day he wanders still
    By lake and forest, marsh and hill,
    Singing, "O somewhere, in valley or plain,
    Might I find my Jumbly Girl again!
    For ever I'll seek by lake and shore
    Till I find my Jumbly Girl once more!"

        Playing a pipe with silvery squeaks,
        Since then his Jumbly Girl he seeks;
        And because by night he could not see,
        He gathered the bark of the Twangum Tree
          On the flowery plain that grows.
          And he wove him a wondrous Nose,--
        A Nose as strange as a Nose could be!

    Of vast proportions and painted red,
    And tied with cords to the back of his head.
        In a hollow rounded space it ended
        With a luminous Lamp within suspended,
            All fenced about
            With a bandage stout
            To prevent the wind from blowing it out;
        And with holes all round to send the light
        In gleaming rays on the dismal night

    And now each night, and all night long,
    Over those plains still roams the Dong;
    And above the wail of the Chimp and Snipe
    You may hear the squeak of his plaintive pipe,
    While ever he seeks, but seeks in vain,
    To meet with his Jumbly Girl again;
    Lonely and wild, all night he goes,--
    The Dong with a luminous Nose!
    And all who watch at the midnight hour,
    From Hall or Terrace or lofty Tower,
    Cry, as they trace the Meteor bright,
    Moving along through the dreary night,--
       "This is the hour when forth he goes,
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!
        Yonder, over the plain he goes,--
            He goes!
            He goes,--
        The Dong with a luminous Nose!"

THE TWO OLD BACHELORS.

Two old Bachelors were living in one house;
One caught a Muffin, the other caught a Mouse.
Said he who caught the Muffin to him who caught the Mouse,--
"This happens just in time! For we've nothing in the house,
Save a tiny slice of lemon and a teaspoonful of honey,
And what to do for dinner--since we haven't any money?
And what can we expect if we haven't any dinner,
But to lose our teeth and eyelashes and keep on growing thinner?"

Said he who caught the Mouse to him who caught the Muffin,--
"We might cook this little Mouse, if we only had some Stuffin'!
If we had but Sage and Onion we could do extremely well;
But how to get that Stuffin' it is difficult to tell!"

Those two old Bachelors ran quickly to the town
And asked for Sage and Onion as they wandered up and down;
They borrowed two large Onions, but no Sage was to be found
In the Shops, or in the Market, or in all the Gardens round.

But some one said, "A hill there is, a little to the north,
And to its purpledicular top a narrow way leads forth;
And there among the rugged rocks abides an ancient Sage,--
An earnest Man, who reads all day a most perplexing page.
Climb up, and seize him by the toes,--all studious as he sits,--
And pull him down, and chop him into endless little bits!
Then mix him with your Onion (cut up likewise into Scraps),--
When your Stuffin' will be ready, and very good--perhaps."

Those two old Bachelors without loss of time
The nearly purpledicular crags at once began to climb;
And at the top, among the rocks, all seated in a nook,
They saw that Sage a-reading of a most enormous book.

"You earnest Sage!" aloud they cried, "your book you've read enough in!
We wish to chop you into bits to mix you into Stuffin'!"

But that old Sage looked calmly up, and with his awful book,
At those two Bachelors' bald heads a certain aim he took;
And over Crag and precipice they rolled promiscuous down,--
At once they rolled, and never stopped in lane or field or town;
And when they reached their house, they found (besides their want
                                                          of Stuffin'),
The Mouse had fled--and, previously, had eaten up the Muffin.

They left their home in silence by the once convivial door;
And from that hour those Bachelors were never heard of more.

THE PELICAN CHORUS.

    King and Queen of the Pelicans we;
     No other Birds so grand we see!
    None but we have feet like fins!
    With lovely leathery throats and chins!
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican Jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still

    We live on the Nile. The Nile we love.
    By night we sleep on the cliffs above;
    By day we fish, and at eve we stand
    On long bare islands of yellow sand.
    And when the sun sinks slowly down,
    And the great rock walls grow dark and brown,

    Where the purple river rolls fast and dim
    And the Ivory Ibis starlike skim,
    Wing to wing we dance around,
    Stamping our feet with a flumpy sound,
    Opening our mouths as Pelicans ought;
    And this is the song we nightly snort,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Last year came out our Daughter Dell,
    And all the Birds received her well.
    To do her honor a feast we made
    For every bird that can swim or wade,--
    Herons and Gulls, and Cormorants black,
    Cranes, and Flamingoes with scarlet back,
    Plovers and Storks, and Geese in clouds,
    Swans and Dilberry Ducks in crowds:
    Thousands of Birds in wondrous flight!
    They ate and drank and danced all night,
    And echoing back from the rocks you heard
    Multitude-echoes from Bird and Bird,--
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    Yes, they came; and among the rest
    The King of the Cranes all grandly dressed.
    Such a lovely tail! Its feathers float
    Between the ends of his blue dress-coat;
    With pea-green trowsers all so neat,
    And a delicate frill to hide his feet
    (For though no one speaks of it, every one knows
    He has got no webs between his toes).

    As soon as he saw our Daughter Dell,
    In violent love that Crane King fell,--
    On seeing her waddling form so fair,
    With a wreath of shrimps in her short white hair.
    And before the end of the next long day
    Our Dell had given her heart away;
    For the King of the Cranes had won that heart
    With a Crocodile's egg and a large fish-tart.
    She vowed to marry the King of the Cranes,
    Leaving the Nile for stranger plains;
    And away they flew in a gathering crowd
    Of endless birds in a lengthening cloud.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

    And far away in the twilight sky
    We heard them singing a lessening cry,--
    Farther and farther, till out of sight,
    And we stood alone in the silent night!
    Often since, in the nights of June,
    We sit on the sand and watch the moon,--

    She has gone to the great Gromboolian Plain,
    And we probably never shall meet again!
    Oft, in the long still nights of June,
    We sit on the rocks and watch the moon,--
    She dwells by the streams of the Chankly Bore.
    And we probably never shall see her more.
        Ploffskin, Pluffskin, Pelican jee!
        We think no Birds so happy as we!
        Plumpskin, Ploshkin, Pelican jill!
        We think so then, and we thought so still!

[NOTE.--The Air of this and the following Song by Edward Lear; the

THE COURTSHIP OF THE YONGHY-BONGHY-BO.

                    I.

    On the Coast of Coromandel
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          In the middle of the woods
      Lived the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
    Two old chairs, and half a candle,
    One old jug without a handle,--
          These were all his worldly goods:
          In the middle of the woods,
          These were all the worldly goods
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Of the Yonghy-Bonghy Bo.

                    II.

    Once, among the Bong-trees walking
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To a little heap of stones
      Came the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
    There he heard a Lady talking,
    To some milk-white Hens of Dorking,--
        "'Tis the Lady Jingly Jones!
          On that little heap of stones
          Sits the Lady Jingly Jones!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

                    III.

   "Lady Jingly! Lady Jingly!
         Sitting where the pumpkins blow,
           Will you come and be my wife?"
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
   "I am tired of living singly--
    On this coast so wild and shingly,--
          I'm a-weary of my life;
          If you'll come and be my wife,
          Quite serene would be my life!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

                    IV.

    "On this Coast of Coromandel
         Shrimps and watercresses grow,
           Prawns are plentiful and cheap,"
       Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
   "You shall have my chairs and candle,
    And my jug without a handle!
          Gaze upon the rolling deep
         (Fish is plentiful and cheap);
          As the sea, my love is deep!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

                    V.

    Lady Jingly answered sadly,
         And her tears began to flow,--
          "Your proposal comes too late,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
    I would be your wife most gladly!"
    (Here she twirled her fingers madly,)
         "But in England I've a mate!
          Yes! you've asked me far too late,
          For in England I've a mate,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!

                    VI.

   "Mr. Jones (his name is Handel,--
         Handel Jones, Esquire, & Co.)
           Dorking fowls delights to send,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
    Keep, oh, keep your chairs and candle,
    And your jug without a handle,--
          I can merely be your friend!
          Should my Jones more Dorkings send,
          I will give you three, my friend!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bongy-Bo!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!

                    VII.

   "Though you've such a tiny body,
         And your head so large doth grow,--
           Though your hat may blow away,
       Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
    Though you're such a Hoddy Doddy,
    Yet I wish that I could modi-
          fy the words I needs must say!
          Will you please to go away?
          That is all I have to say,
      Mr. Yongby-Bonghy-Bo!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!"

                    VIII.

    Down the slippery slopes of Myrtle,
        Where the early pumpkins blow,
          To the calm and silent sea
       Fled the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
    There, beyond the Bay of Gurtle,
    Lay a large and lively Turtle.
         "You're the Cove," he said, "for me;
          On your back beyond the sea,
          Turtle, you shall carry me!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

                    IX.

    Through the silent-roaring ocean
        Did the Turtle swiftly go;
          Holding fast upon his shell
      Rode the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
    With a sad primaeval motion
    Towards the sunset isles of Boshen
          Still the Turtle bore him well.
          Holding fast upon his shell,
         "Lady Jingly Jones, farewell!"
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

                    X.

    From the Coast of Coromandel
        Did that Lady never go;
          On that heap of stones she mourns
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
    On that Coast of Coromandel,
    In his jug without a handle
        Still she weeps, and daily moans;
        On that little heap of stones
        To her Dorking Hens she moans,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
          For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES.

                    I.

    The Pobble who has no toes
        Had once as many as we;
    When they said, "Some day you may lose them all;"
        He replied, "Fish fiddle de-dee!"
    And his Aunt Jobiska made him drink
    Lavender water tinged with pink;
    For she said, "The World in general knows
    There's nothing so good for a Pobble's toes!"

                    II.

    The Pobble who has no toes,
        Swam across the Bristol Channel;
    But before he set out he wrapped his nose
        In a piece of scarlet flannel.
    For his Aunt Jobiska said, "No harm
    Can come to his toes if his nose is warm;
    And it's perfectly known that a Pobble's toes
    Are safe--provided he minds his nose."

                    III.

    The Pobble swam fast and well,
        And when boats or ships came near him,
    He tinkledy-binkledy-winkled a bell
        So that all the world could hear him.
    And all the Sailors and Admirals cried,
    When they saw him nearing the further side,--
   "He has gone to fish, for his Aunt Jobiska's
    Runcible Cat with crimson whiskers!"

                    IV.

    But before he touched the shore,--
        The shore of the Bristol Channel,
    A sea-green Porpoise carried away
        His wrapper of scarlet flannel.
    And when he came to observe his feet,
    Formerly garnished with toes so neat,
    His face at once became forlorn
    On perceiving that all his toes were gone!

                    V.

    And nobody ever knew,
        From that dark day to the present,
    Whoso had taken the Pobble's toes,
        In a manner so far from pleasant.
    Whether the shrimps or crawfish gray,
    Or crafty Mermaids stole them away,
    Nobody knew; and nobody knows
    How the Pobble was robbed of his twice five toes!

                    VI.

    The Pobble who has no toes
        Was placed in a friendly Bark,
    And they rowed him back, and carried him up
        To his Aunt Jobiska's Park.
    And she made him a feast, at his earnest wish,
    Of eggs and buttercups fried with fish;
    And she said, "It's a fact the whole world knows,
    That Pobbles are happier without their toes."

THE NEW VESTMENTS.

    There lived an old man in the Kingdom of Tess,
    Who invented a purely original dress;
    And when it was perfectly made and complete,
    He opened the door and walked into the street.

    By way of a hat he'd a loaf of Brown Bread,
    In the middle of which he inserted his head;
    His Shirt was made up of no end of dead Mice,
    The warmth of whose skins was quite fluffy and nice;
    His Drawers were of Rabbit-skins, so were his Shoes;
    His Stockings were skins, but it is not known whose;
    His Waistcoat and Trowsers were made of Pork Chops;
    His Buttons were Jujubes and Chocolate Drops;
    His Coat was all Pancakes, with Jam for a border,
    And a girdle of Biscuits to keep it in order;
    And he wore over all, as a screen from bad weather,
    A Cloak of green Cabbage-leaves stitched all together.

    He had walked a short way, when he heard a great noise,
    Of all sorts of Beasticles, Birdlings, and Boys;
    And from every long street and dark lane in the town
    Beasts, Birdies, and Boys in a tumult rushed down.
    Two Cows and a Calf ate his Cabbage-leaf Cloak;
    Four Apes seized his Girdle, which vanished like smoke;
    Three Kids ate up half of his Pancaky Coat,
    And the tails were devour'd by an ancient He Goat;
    An army of Dogs in a twinkling tore _up_ his
    Pork Waistcoat and Trowsers to give to their Puppies;
    And while they were growling, and mumbling the Chops,
    Ten Boys prigged the Jujubes and Chocolate Drops.
    He tried to run back to his house, but in vain,
    For scores of fat Pigs came again and again:
    They rushed out of stables and hovels and doors;
    They tore off his stockings, his shoes, and his drawers;
    And now from the housetops with screechings descend
    Striped, spotted, white, black, and gray Cats without end:
    They jumped on his shoulders and knocked off his hat,
    When Crows, Ducks, and Hens made a mincemeat of that;
    They speedily flew at his sleeves in a trice,
    And utterly tore up his Shirt of dead Mice;
    They swallowed the last of his Shirt with a squall,--
    Whereon he ran home with no clothes on at all.

    And he said to himself, as he bolted the door,
   "I will not wear a similar dress any more,
    Any more, any more, any more, never more!"

MR. AND MRS. DISCOBBOLOS.

                    I.

    Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Climbed to the top of a wall.
      And they sate to watch the sunset sky,
      And to hear the Nupiter Piffkin cry,
        And the Biscuit Buffalo call.
    They took up a roll and some Camomile tea,
    And both were as happy as happy could be,
            Till Mrs. Discobbolos said,--
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head,
      Suppose we should happen to fall!!!!!
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos!

                    II.

   "Suppose we should fall down flumpetty,
        Just like pieces of stone,
      On to the thorns, or into the moat,
      What would become of your new green coat?
        And might you not break a bone?
    It never occurred to me before,
    That perhaps we shall never go down any more!"
            And Mrs. Discobbolos said,
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            What put it into your head
      To climb up this wall, my own
                        Darling Mr. Discobbolos?"

                    III.

    Mr. Discobbolos answered,
       "At first it gave me pain,
      And I felt my ears turn perfectly pink
      When your exclamation made me think
        We might never get down again!
    But now I believe it is wiser far
    To remain for ever just where we are."
            And Mr. Discobbolos said,
           "Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            It has just come into my head
      We shall never go down again,
                        Dearest Mrs. Discobbolos!"

                    IV.

    So Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos
        Stood up and began to sing,--
     "Far away from hurry and strife
      Here we will pass the rest of life,
        Ding a dong, ding dong, ding!
    We want no knives nor forks nor chairs,
    No tables nor carpets nor household cares;
            From worry of life we've fled;
            Oh! W! X! Y! Z!
            There is no more trouble ahead,
      Sorrow or any such thing,
                        For Mr. and Mrs. Discobbolos!"

THE QUANGLE WANGLE'S HAT.

                    I.

    On the top of the Crumpetty Tree
        The Quangle Wangle sat,
    But his face you could not see,
        On account of his Beaver Hat.
    For his Hat was a hundred and two feet wide,
    With ribbons and bibbons on every side,
    And bells, and buttons, and loops, and lace,
    So that nobody ever could see the face
            Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

                    II.

    The Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    "Jam, and jelly, and bread
        Are the best of food for me!
    But the longer I live on this Crumpetty Tree
    The plainer than ever it seems to me
    That very few people come this way
    And that life on the whole is far from gay!"
            Said the Quangle Wangle Quee.

                    III.

    But there came to the Crumpetty Tree
        Mr. and Mrs. Canary;
    And they said, "Did ever you see
        Any spot so charmingly airy?
    May we build a nest on your lovely Hat?
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
    O please let us come and build a nest
    Of whatever material suits you best,
            Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"

                    IV.

    And besides, to the Crumpetty Tree
        Came the Stork, the Duck, and the Owl;
    The Snail and the Bumble-Bee,
        The Frog and the Fimble Fowl
    (The Fimble Fowl, with a Corkscrew leg);
    And all of them said, "We humbly beg
    We may build our homes on your lovely Hat,--
    Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
       Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"

                    V.

    And the Golden Grouse came there,
        And the Pobble who has no toes,
    And the small Olympian bear,
        And the Dong with a luminous nose.
    And the Blue Baboon who played the flute,
    And the Orient Calf from the Land of Tute,
    And the Attery Squash, and the Bisky Bat,--
    All came and built on the lovely Hat
      Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

                    VI.

    And the Quangle Wangle said
        To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
    "When all these creatures move
        What a wonderful noise there'll be!"
    And at night by the light of the Mulberry moon
    They danced to the Flute of the Blue Baboon,
    On the broad green leaves of the Crumpetty Tree,
    And all were as happy as happy could be,
      With the Quangle Wangle Quee.

THE CUMMERBUND.
An Indian Poem.

                    I.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    To watch the Evening Star,
And all the Punkahs, as they passed,
    Cried, "My! how fair you are!"
Around her bower, with quivering leaves,
    The tall Kamsamahs grew,
And Kitmutgars in wild festoons
    Hung down from Tchokis blue.

                    II.

Below her home the river rolled
    With soft meloobious sound,
Where golden-finned Chuprassies swam,
    In myriads circling round.
Above, on tallest trees remote
    Green Ayahs perched alone,
And all night long the Mussak moan'd
    Its melancholy tone.

                    III.

And where the purple Nullahs threw
    Their branches far and wide,
And silvery Goreewallahs flew
    In silence, side by side,
The little Bheesties' twittering cry
    Rose on the flagrant air,
And oft the angry Jampan howled
    Deep in his hateful lair.

                    IV.

She sate upon her Dobie,
    She heard the Nimmak hum,
When all at once a cry arose,
    "The Cummerbund is come!"
In vain she fled: with open jaws
    The angry monster followed,
And so (before assistance came)
    That Lady Fair was swollowed.

                    V.

They sought in vain for even a bone
    Respectfully to bury;
They said, "Hers was a dreadful fate!"
    (And Echo answered, "Very.")
They nailed her Dobie to the wall,
    Where last her form was seen,
And underneath they wrote these words,
    In yellow, blue, and green:
"Beware, ye Fair! Ye Fair, beware!
    Nor sit out late at night,
Lest horrid Cummerbunds should come,
    And swollow you outright."

NOTE.--First published in _Times of India_, Bombay, July, 1874.

THE AKOND OF SWAT.

    Who, or why, or which, or _what_, Is the Akond of SWAT?
    Is he tall or short, or dark or fair?
    Does he sit on a stool or a sofa or chair,             or SQUAT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he wise or foolish, young or old?
    Does he drink his soup and his coffee cold,             or HOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he sing or whistle, jabber or talk,
    And when riding abroad does he gallop or walk,          or TROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a turban, a fez, or a hat?
    Does he sleep on a mattress, a bed, or a mat,          or a COT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    When he writes a copy in round-hand size,
    Does he cross his T's and finish his I's              with a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Can he write a letter concisely clear
    Without a speck or a smudge or smear                    or BLOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people like him extremely well?
    Or do they, whenever they can, rebel,                   or PLOT,
                                                    At the Akond of Swat?

    If he catches them then, either old or young,
    Does he have them chopped in pieces or hung,            or _shot_,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Do his people prig in the lanes or park?
    Or even at times, when days are dark,                   GAROTTE?
                                                     O the Akond of Swat!

    Does he study the wants of his own dominion?
    Or doesn't he care for public opinion                    a JOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    To amuse his mind do his people show him
    Pictures, or any one's last new poem,                    or WHAT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    At night if he suddenly screams and wakes,
    Do they bring him only a few small cakes,               or a LOT,
                                                   For the Akond of Swat?

    Does he live on turnips, tea, or tripe?
    Does he like his shawl to be marked with a stripe,      or a DOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to lie on his back in a boat
    Like the lady who lived in that isle remote,            SHALLOTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Is he quiet, or always making a fuss?
    Is his steward a Swiss or a Swede or a Russ,           or a SCOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like to sit by the calm blue wave?
    Or to sleep and snore in a dark green cave,            or a GROTT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he drink small beer from a silver jug?
    Or a bowl? or a glass? or a cup? or a mug?              or a POT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he beat his wife with a gold-topped pipe,
    When she lets the gooseberries grow too ripe,            or ROT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he wear a white tie when he dines with friends,
    And tie it neat in a bow with ends,                    or a KNOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he like new cream, and hate mince-pies?
    When he looks at the sun does he wink his eyes,          or NOT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Does he teach his subjects to roast and bake?
    Does he sail about on an inland lake,                  in a YACHT,
                                                       The Akond of Swat?

    Some one, or nobody, knows I wot
    Who or which or why or what
                                                    Is the Akond of Swat!

NOTE.--For the existence of this potentate see Indian newspapers, _passim_.
The proper way to read the verses is to make an immense emphasis on the
monosyllabic rhymes, which indeed ought to be shouted out by a chorus.

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE BOTANY.

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE ALPHABETS.

                     A

    A was an Area Arch
        Where washerwomen sat;
    They made a lot of lovely starch
        To starch Papa's Cravat.

                     B

    B was a Bottle blue,
        Which was not very small;
    Papa he filled it full of beer,
        And then he drank it all.

                     C

    C was Papa's gray Cat,
        Who caught a squeaky Mouse;
    She pulled him by his twirly tail
        All about the house.

                     D

    D was Papa's white Duck,
        Who had a curly tail;
    One day it ate a great fat frog,
        Besides a leetle snail.

                     E

    E was a little Egg,
        Upon the breakfast table;
    Papa came in and ate it up
        As fast as he was able.

                     F

    F was a little Fish.
        Cook in the river took it
    Papa said, "Cook! Cook! bring a dish!
        And, Cook! be quick and cook it!"

                     G

    G was Papa's new Gun;
        He put it in a box;
    And then he went and bought a bun,
        And walked about the Docks.

                     H

    H was Papa's new Hat;
        He wore it on his head;
    Outside it was completely black,
        But inside it was red.

                     I

    I was an Inkstand new,
        Papa he likes to use it;
    He keeps it in his pocket now,
        For fear that he should lose it.

                     J

    J was some Apple Jam,
        Of which Papa ate part;
    But all the rest he took away
        And stuffed into a tart.

                     K

    K was a great new Kite;
        Papa he saw it fly
    Above a thousand chimney pots,
        And all about the sky.

                     L

    L was a fine new Lamp;
        But when the wick was lit,
    Papa he said, "This Light ain't good!
        I cannot read a bit!"

                     M

    M was a dish of mince;
        It looked so good to eat!
    Papa, he quickly ate it up,
        And said, "This is a treat!"

                     N

    N was a Nut that grew
        High up upon a tree;
    Papa, who could not reach it, said,
        "That's _much_ too high for me!"

                     O

    O was an Owl who flew
        All in the dark away,
    Papa said, "What an owl you are!
        Why don't you fly by day?"

                     P

    P was a little Pig,
        Went out to take a walk;
    Papa he said, "If Piggy dead,
        He'd all turn into Pork!"

                     Q

    Q was a Quince that hung
        Upon a garden tree;
    Papa he brought it with him home,
        And ate it with his tea.

                     R

    R was a Railway Rug
        Extremely large and warm;
    Papa he wrapped it round his head,
        In a most dreadful storm.

                     S

    S was Papa's new Stick,
        Papa's new thumping Stick,
    To thump extremely wicked boys,
        Because it was so thick.

                     T

    T was a tumbler full
        Of Punch all hot and good;
    Papa he drank it up, when in
        The middle of a wood.

                     U

    U was a silver urn,
        Full of hot scalding water;
    Papa said, "If that Urn were mine,
        I'd give it to my daughter!"

                     V

    V was a Villain; once
        He stole a piece of beef.
    Papa he said, "Oh, dreadful man!
        That Villain is a Thief!"

                     W

    W was a Watch of Gold:
        It told the time of day,
    So that Papa knew when to come,
        And when to go away.

                     X

    X was King Xerxes, whom
        Papa much wished to know;
    But this he could not do, because
        Xerxes died long ago.

                     Y

    Y was a Youth, who kicked
        And screamed and cried like mad;
    Papa he said, "Your conduct is
        Abominably bad!"

                     Z

    Z was a Zebra striped
        And streaked with lines of black;
    Papa said once, he thought he'd like
        A ride upon his back.

ALPHABET, No. 6.

    A tumbled down, and hurt his Arm, against a bit of wood,

    B said. "My Boy, oh, do not cry; it cannot do you good!"

    C said, "A Cup of Coffee hot can't do you any harm."

    D said, "A Doctor should be fetched, and he would cure the arm."

    E said, "An Egg beat up with milk would quickly make him well."

    F said, "A Fish, if broiled, might cure, if only by the smell."

    G said, "Green Gooseberry fool, the best of cures I hold."

    H said, "His Hat should be kept on, to keep him from the cold."

    I said, "Some Ice upon his head will make him better soon."

    J said, "Some Jam, if spread on bread, or given in a spoon!"

    K said, "A Kangaroo is here,--this picture let him see."

    L said, "A Lamp pray keep alight, to make some barley tea."

    M said, "A Mulberry or two might give him satisfaction."

    N said, "Some Nuts, if rolled about, might be a slight attraction."

    O said, "An Owl might make him laugh, if only it would wink."

    P said, "Some Poetry might be read aloud, to make him think."

    Q said, "A Quince I recommend,--a Quince, or else a Quail."

    R said, "Some Rats might make him move, if fastened by their tail."

    S said, "A Song should now be sung, in hopes to make him laugh!"

    T said, "A Turnip might avail, if sliced or cut in half!"

    U said, "An Urn, with water hot, place underneath his chin!"

    V said, "I'll stand upon a chair, and play a Violin!"

    W said, "Some Whisky-Whizzgigs fetch, some marbles and a ball!"

    X said, "Some double XX ale would be the best of all!"

    Y said, "Some Yeast mixed up with salt would make a perfect plaster!"

    Z said, "Here is a box of Zinc! Get in, my little master!
             We'll shut you up! We'll nail you down! We will, my little
                 master!
             We think we've all heard quite enough of this your sad
                 disaster!"LEAR'S NONSENSE DROLLERIES

THE OWL & THE PUSSY CAT

AND

THE DUCK
& THE
KANGAROO

WITH
Original Illustrations
BY
WILLIAM FOSTER

LONDON & NEW YORK
FREDERICK WARNE AND CO.

_ALL RIGHTS RESERVED._

The Owl
and
The Pussy-Cat.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Duck
and
The Kangaroo.

Nonsense Drolleries

_The Owl & The Pussy-Cat--The Duck & The Kangaroo._

BY

EDWARD LEAR,

AUTHOR OF "THE BOOK OF NONSENSE," ETC.

WITH ORIGINAL ILLUSTRATIONS BY WILLIAM FOSTER

LONDON & NEW YORK
FREDERICK WARNE AND CO.

_ALL RIGHTS RESERVED._

_PUBLISHERS' PREFACE._

The almost general desire to have THE OWL
and THE PUSSY-CAT, THE DUCK and THE
KANGAROO, in a distinct form from Mr. LEAR's
other Nonsense Drolleries, has induced us to
issue them separately with Original Illustrations.

FREDK. WARNE & CO.

London
Engraved & Printed
at
Racquet Court,
_by_
_Edmund Evans_.

    The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
        In a beautiful pea-green boat,

    They took some honey, and plenty of money
        Wrapped up in a five-pound note.

    The Owl looked up to the stars above,
        And sang to a small guitar,

    "O lovely Pussy! O Pussy, my love,
        What a beautiful Pussy you are,
                You are,
                You are!
        What a beautiful Pussy you are!"

    Pussy said to the Owl, "You elegant fowl!
        How charmingly sweet you sing!

    O let us be married! too long we have tarried:
        But what shall we do for a ring?"

    They sailed away for a year and a day,
        To the land where the Bong-tree grows,

    And there in a wood a Piggy-wig stood,
        With a ring at the end of his nose,
                His nose,
                His nose,
        With a ring at the end of his nose.

    "Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
        Your ring?" Said the Piggy, "I will."

    So they took it away, and were married next day
        By the Turkey who lives on the hill.

    They dined on mince, and slices of quince
        Which they ate with a runcible spoon;

    And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
        They danced by the light of the moon,
                The moon,
                The moon,
        They danced by the light of the moon.

The Duck

and

The Kangaroo.

    Said the Duck to the Kangaroo,
        "Good gracious! how you hop
    Over the fields and the water too,
        As if you never would stop!

    My life is a bore in this nasty pond,
    And I long to go out in the world beyond!

    I wish I could hop like you!"
    Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

    "Please give me a ride on your back!"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

    "I would sit quite still, and say nothing but 'Quack,'
        The whole of the long day through!

    And we'd go to the Dee, and the Jelly Bo Lee,
    Over the land, and over the sea;--
        Please take me a ride! O do!"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

    Said the Kangaroo to the Duck,
        "This requires some little reflection;
    Perhaps on the whole it might bring me luck,
        And there seems but one objection,

    Which is, if you'll let me speak so bold,
    Your feet are unpleasantly wet and cold,
        And would probably give me the roo-
        Matiz." said the Kangaroo.

    Said the Duck, "As I sate on the rocks,
        I have thought over that completely,
    And I bought four pairs of worsted socks
        Which fit my web-feet neatly

    And to keep out the cold I've bought a cloak
    And every day a cigar I'll smoke,
        All to follow my own dear true
        Love of a Kangaroo!"

    Said the Kangaroo, "I'm ready!
        All in the moonlight pale;
    But to balance me well, dear Duck, sit steady!
        And quite at the end of my tail!"

    So away they went with a hop and a bound,
    And they hopped the whole world three times round;
        And who so happy,--O who,
        As the Duck and the Kangaroo?

A LIST OF WORKS

BY

THE LATE EDWARD LEAR.

_In oblong 4to, cloth gilt,_

The Book of Nonsense. 27th Edition, 110 Illustrations
printed in outline as originally published.

More Nonsense. Third Edition.  104 Illustrations.

_In small 4to, cloth gilt,_

Nonsense Songs and Stories. 7th Edition.

Illustrations. Fifth Edition.

MR. RUSKIN

says, in his _List of the Best Hundred Authors_--"Surely the most
beneficent and innocent of all looks yet produced is 'The Book of
Nonsense,' with its corollary carols, inimitable and refreshing, and
perfect in rhythm. I really don't know any author to whom I am half so
grateful for my idle self as Edward Lear. I shall put him first of my
hundred authors."

LONDON AND NEW YORK:
FREDERICK WARNE & CO.

CONTENTS

    NONSENSE SONGS.
        THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT
        THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO
        THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY
        THE JUMBLIES
        THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS
        CALICO PIE
        MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW
        THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS THE TABLE AND THE
        CHAIR

    NONSENSE STORIES.
        THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD
        THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE

    NONSENSE COOKERY

    NONSENSE BOTANY

NONSENSE SONGS.

THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT.

                    I.

    The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
      In a beautiful pea-green boat:
    They took some honey, and plenty of money
      Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
    The Owl looked up to the stars above,
      And sang to a small guitar,
   "O lovely Pussy, O Pussy, my love,
        What a beautiful Pussy you are,
          You are,
          You are!
      What a beautiful Pussy you are!"

                    II.

    Pussy said to the Owl, "You elegant fowl,
      How charmingly sweet you sing!
    Oh! let us be married; too long we have tarried:
      But what shall we do for a ring?"
    They sailed away, for a year and a day,
      To the land where the bong-tree grows;
    And there in a wood a Piggy-wig stood,
      With a ring at the end of his nose,
          His nose,
          His nose,
      With a ring at the end of his nose.

                    III.

    "Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
      Your ring?" Said the Piggy, "I will."
    So they took it away, and were married next day
      By the Turkey who lives on the hill.
    They dined on mince and slices of quince,
      Which they ate with a runcible spoon;
    And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
      They danced by the light of the moon,
          The moon,
          The moon,
    They danced by the light of the moon.

THE DUCK AND THE KANGAROO.

                    I.

    Said the Duck to the Kangaroo,
       "Good gracious! how you hop
    Over the fields, and the water too,
        As if you never would stop!
    My life is a bore in this nasty pond;
    And I long to go out in the world beyond:
        I wish I could hop like you,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

                    II.

   "Please give me a ride on your back,"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo:
   "I would sit quite still, and say nothing but 'Quack'
        The whole of the long day through;
    And we 'd go the Dee, and the Jelly Bo Lee,
    Over the land, and over the sea:
        Please take me a ride! oh, do!"
        Said the Duck to the Kangaroo.

                    III.

    Said the Kangaroo to the Duck,
       "This requires some little reflection.
    Perhaps, on the whole, it might bring me luck;
        And there seems but one objection;
    Which is, if you'll let me speak so bold,
    Your feet are unpleasantly wet and cold,
        And would probably give me the roo-
        Matiz," said the Kangaroo.

                    IV.

    Said the Duck, "As I sate on the rocks,
        I have thought over that completely;
    And I bought four pairs of worsted socks,
        Which fit my web-feet neatly;
    And, to keep out the cold, I've bought a cloak;
    And every day a cigar I'll smoke;
        All to follow my own dear true
        Love of a Kangaroo."

                    V.

    Said the Kangaroo, "I'm ready,
        All in the moonlight pale;
    But to balance me well, dear Duck, sit steady,
        And quite at the end of my tail."
    So away they went with a hop and a bound;
    And they hopped the whole world three times round.
        And who so happy, oh! who,
        As the Duck and the Kangaroo?

THE DADDY LONG-LEGS AND THE FLY.

                    I.

    Once Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
        Dressed in brown and gray,
    Walked about upon the sands
        Upon a summer's day:
    And there among the pebbles,
        When the wind was rather cold,
    He met with Mr. Floppy Fly,
        All dressed in blue and gold;
    And, as it was too soon to dine,
    They drank some periwinkle-wine,
    And played an hour or two, or more,
    At battlecock and shuttledore.

                    II.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        To Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "Why do you never come to court?
        I wish you 'd tell me why.
    All gold and shine, in dress so fine,
        You'd quite delight the court.
    Why do you never go at all?
        I really think you _ought_.
    And, if you went, you'd see such sights!
    Such rugs and jugs and candle-lights!
    And, more than all, the king and queen,--
    One in red, and one in green."

                    III.

    "O Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "It's true I never go to court;
        And I will tell you why.
    If I had six long legs like yours,
        At once I'd go to court;
    But, oh! I can't, because _my_ legs
        Are so extremely short.
    And I'm afraid the king and queen
    (One in red, and one in green)
    Would say aloud, 'You are not fit,
    You Fly, to come to court a bit!'"

                    IV.

    "Oh, Mr. Daddy Long-legs!"
        Said Mr. Floppy Fly,
    "I wish you 'd sing one little song,
        One mumbian melody.
    You used to sing so awful well
        In former days gone by;
    But now you never sing at all:
        I wish you'd tell me why:
    For, if you would, the silvery sound
    Would please the shrimps and cockles round,
    And all the crabs would gladly come
    To hear you sing, 'Ah, Hum di Hum!'"

                    V.

    Said Mr. Daddy Long-legs,
       "I can never sing again;
    And, if you wish, I'll tell you why,
        Although it gives me pain.
    For years I cannot hum a bit,
        Or sing the smallest song;
    And this the dreadful reason is,--
        My legs are grown too long!
    My six long legs, all here and there,
    Oppress my bosom with despair;
    And, if I stand or lie or sit,
    I cannot sing one single bit!"

                    VI.

    So Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Sat down in silence by the sea,
        And gazed upon the sky.
    They said, "This is a dreadful thing!
        The world has all gone wrong,
    Since one has legs too short by half,
        The other much too long.
    One never more can go to court,
    Because his legs have grown too short;
    The other cannot sing a song,
    Because his legs have grown too long!"

                    VII.

    Then Mr. Daddy Long-legs
        And Mr. Floppy Fly
    Rushed downward to the foamy sea
        With one sponge-taneous cry:
    And there they found a little boat,
        Whose sails were pink and gray;
    And off they sailed among the waves,
        Far and far away:
    They sailed across the silent main,
    And reached the great Gromboolian Plain;
    And there they play forevermore
    At battlecock and shuttledore.

THE JUMBLIES.

                    I.

    They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
        In a sieve they went to sea:
    In spite of all their friends could say,
    On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
        In a sieve they went to sea.
    And when the sieve turned round and round,
    And every one cried, "You'll all be drowned!"
    They called aloud, "Our sieve ain't big;
    But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
        In a sieve we'll go to sea!"
             Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
             Their heads are green, and their hands are blue
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     II.

    They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
        In a sieve they sailed so fast,
    With only a beautiful pea-green veil
    Tied with a ribbon, by way of a sail,
        To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
    And every one said who saw them go,
   "Oh! won't they be soon upset, you know?
    For the sky is dark, and the voyage is long;
    And, happen what may, it's extremely wrong
        In a sieve to sail so fast."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     III.

    The water it soon came in, it did;
        The water it soon came in:
    So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
        In a pinky paper all folded neat;
    And they fastened it down with a pin.
    And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
    And each of them said, "How wise we are!
    Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
    Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
        While round in our sieve we spin."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     IV.

    And all night long they sailed away;
        And when the sun went down,
    They whistled and warbled a moony song
        To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
    In the shade of the mountains brown.
   "O Timballoo! How happy we are
    When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
    And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
    We sail away with a pea-green sail
        In the shade of the mountains brown."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     V.

    They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
        To a land all covered with trees:
    And they bought an owl, and a useful cart,
        And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
    And a hive of silvery bees;
    And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
    And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
    And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
        And no end of Stilton cheese.
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

                     VI.

    And in twenty years they all came back,--
        In twenty years or more;
    And every one said, "How tall they've grown!
        For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
    And the hills of the Chankly Bore."
    And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
    Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
    And every one said, "If we only live,
    We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
        To the hills of the Chankly Bore."
            Far and few, far and few,
        Are the lands where the Jumblies live:
            Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
        And they went to sea in a sieve.

THE NUTCRACKERS AND THE SUGAR-TONGS.

                     I.

    The Nutcrackers sate by a plate on the table;
        The Sugar-tongs sate by a plate at his side;
    And the Nutcrackers said, "Don't you wish we were able
        Along the blue hills and green meadows to ride?
    Must we drag on this stupid existence forever,
        So idle and weary, so full of remorse,
    While every one else takes his pleasure, and never
        Seems happy unless he is riding a horse?

                     II.

    "Don't you think we could ride without being instructed,
        Without any saddle or bridle or spur?
    Our legs are so long, and so aptly constructed,
        I'm sure that an accident could not occur.
    Let us all of a sudden hop down from the table,
        And hustle downstairs, and each jump on a horse!
    Shall we try? Shall we go? Do you think we are able?"
        The Sugar-tongs answered distinctly, "Of course!"

                     III.

    So down the long staircase they hopped in a minute;
        The Sugar-tongs snapped, and the Crackers said "Crack!"
    The stable was open; the horses were in it:
        Each took out a pony, and jumped on his back.
    The Cat in a fright scrambled out of the doorway;
        The Mice tumbled out of a bundle of hay;
    The brown and white Rats, and the black ones from Norway,
        Screamed out, "They are taking the horses away!"

                     IV.

    The whole of the household was filled with amazement:
        The Cups and the Saucers danced madly about;
    The Plates and the Dishes looked out of the casement;
        The Salt-cellar stood on his head with a shout;
    The Spoons, with a clatter, looked out of the lattice;
        The Mustard-pot climbed up the gooseberry-pies;
    The Soup-ladle peeped through a heap of veal-patties,
        And squeaked with a ladle-like scream of surprise.

                     V.

    The Frying-pan said, "It's an awful delusion!"
        The Tea-kettle hissed, and grew black in the face;
    And they all rushed downstairs in the wildest confusion
        To see the great Nutcracker-Sugar-tong race.
    And out of the stable, with screamings and laughter
        (Their ponies were cream-colored, speckled with brown),
    The Nutcrackers first, and the Sugar-tongs after;
        Rode all round the yard, and then all round the town.

                     VI.

    They rode through the street, and they rode by the station;
        They galloped away to the beautiful shore;
    In silence they rode, and "made no observation,"
        Save this: "We will never go back any more!"
    And still you might hear, till they rode out of hearing,
        The Sugar-tongs snap, and the Crackers say "Crack!"
    Till, far in the distance their forms disappearing,
        They faded away; and they never came back!

CALICO PIE.

                     I.

      Calico pie,
      The little birds fly
    Down to the calico-tree:
      Their wings were blue,
      And they sang "Tilly-loo!"
      Till away they flew;
        And they never came back to me!
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me!

                     II.

      Calico jam,
      The little Fish swam
    Over the Syllabub Sea.
      He took off his hat
      To the Sole and the Sprat,
      And the Willeby-wat:
        But he never came back to me;
          He never came back,
          He never came back,
        He never came back to me.

                     III.

      Calico ban,
      The little Mice ran
    To be ready in time for tea;
      Flippity flup,
      They drank it all up,
      And danced in the cup:
        But they never came back to me;
          They never came back,
          They never came back,
        They never came back to me.

                     IV.

      Calico drum,
      The Grasshoppers come,
    The Butterfly, Beetle, and Bee,
      Over the ground,
      Around and round,
      With a hop and a bound;
        But they never came back,
          They never came back,
          They never came back.
        They never came back to me.

MR. AND MRS. SPIKKY SPARROW.

                     I.

    On a little piece of wood
    Mr. Spikky Sparrow stood:
    Mrs. Sparrow sate close by,
    A-making of an insect-pie
    For her little children five,
    In the nest and all alive;
    Singing with a cheerful smile,
    To amuse them all the while,
       "Twikky wikky wikky wee,
        Wikky bikky twikky tee,
            Spikky bikky bee!"

                     II.

    Mrs. Spikky Sparrow said,
    "Spikky, darling! in my head
    Many thoughts of trouble come,
    Like to flies upon a plum.
    All last night, among the trees,
    I heard you cough, I heard you sneeze;
    And thought I, 'It's come to that
    Because he does not wear a hat!'
        Chippy wippy sikky tee,
        Bikky wikky tikky mee,
            Spikky chippy wee!

                     III.

    "Not that you are growing old;
    But the nights are growing cold.
    No one stays out all night long
    Without a hat: I'm sure it's wrong!"
    Mr. Spikky said, "How kind,
    Dear, you are, to speak your mind!
    All your life I wish you luck!
    You are, you are, a lovely duck!
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twitchy witchy witchy bee,
            Tikky tikky tee!

                     IV.

    "I was also sad, and thinking,
    When one day I saw you winking,
    And I heard you sniffle-snuffle,
    And I saw your feathers ruffle:
    To myself I sadly said,
    'She's neuralgia in her head!
    That dear head has nothing on it!
    Ought she not to wear a bonnet?'
        Witchy kitchy kitchy wee,
        Spikky wikky mikky bee,
            Chippy wippy chee!

                     V.

    "Let us both fly up to town:
    There I'll buy you such a gown!
    Which, completely in the fashion,
    You shall tie a sky-blue sash on;
    And a pair of slippers neat
    To fit your darling little feet,
    So that you will look and feel
    Quite galloobious and genteel.
        Jikky wikky bikky see,
        Chicky bikky wikky bee,
            Twicky witchy wee!"

                     VI.

    So they both to London went,
    Alighting on the Monument;
    Whence they flew down swiftly--pop!
    Into Moses' wholesale shop:
    There they bought a hat and bonnet,
    And a gown with spots upon it,
    A satin sash of Cloxam blue,
    And a pair of slippers too.
        Zikky wikky mikky bee,
        Witchy witchy mitchy kee,
            Sikky tikky wee!

                     VII.

    Then, when so completely dressed,
    Back they flew, and reached their nest.
    Their children cried, "O ma and pa!
    How truly beautiful you are!"
    Said they, "We trust that cold or pain
    We shall never feel again;
    While, perched on tree or house or steeple,
    We now shall look like other people.
        Witchy witchy witchy wee,
        Twikky mikky bikky bee,
            Zikky sikky tee!"

THE BROOM, THE SHOVEL, THE POKER, AND THE TONGS.

                     I.

    The Broom and the Shovel, the Poker and Tongs,
      They all took a drive in the Park;
    And they each sang a song, ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
      Before they went back in the dark.
    Mr. Poker he sate quite upright in the coach;
      Mr. Tongs made a clatter and clash;
    Miss Shovel was dressed all in black (with a brooch);
      Mrs. Broom was in blue (with a sash).
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        And they all sang a song.

                     II.

   "O Shovely so lovely!" the Poker he sang,
     "You have perfectly conquered my heart.
    Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong! If you're pleased with my song,
      I will feed you with cold apple-tart.
    When you scrape up the coals with a delicate sound,
      You enrapture my life with delight,
    Your nose is so shiny, your head is so round,
      And your shape is so slender and bright!
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        Ain't you pleased with my song?"

                     III.

   "Alas! Mrs. Broom," sighed the Tongs in his song,
     "Oh! is it because I'm so thin,
    And my legs are so long,--ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!--
      That you don't care about me a pin?
    Ah! fairest of creatures, when sweeping the room,
      Ah! why don't you heed my complaint?
    Must you needs be so cruel, you beautiful Broom,
      Because you are covered with paint?
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        You are certainly wrong."

                     IV.

    Mrs. Broom and Miss Shovel together they sang,
     "What nonsense you're singing to-day!"
    Said the Shovel, "I'll certainly hit you a bang!"
      Said the Broom, "And I'll sweep you away!"
    So the coachman drove homeward as fast as he could,
      Perceiving their anger with pain;
    But they put on the kettle, and little by little
      They all became happy again.
        Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
        There's an end of my song.

THE TABLE AND THE CHAIR.

                     I.

    Said the Table to the Chair,
    "You can hardly be aware
    How I suffer from the heat
    And from chilblains on my feet.
    If we took a little walk,
    We might have a little talk;
    Pray let us take the air,"
    Said the Table to the Chair.

                     II.

    Said the Chair unto the Table,
    "Now, you _know_ we are not able:
    How foolishly you talk,
    When you know we _cannot_ walk!"
    Said the Table with a sigh,
    "It can do no harm to try.
    I've as many legs as you:
    Why can't we walk on two?"

                     III.

    So they both went slowly down,
    And walked about the town
    With a cheerful bumpy sound
    As they toddled round and round;
    And everybody cried,
    As they hastened to their side,
    "See! the Table and the Chair
    Have come out to take the air!"

                     IV.

    But in going down an alley,
    To a castle in a valley,
    They completely lost their way,
    And wandered all the day;
    Till, to see them safely back,
    They paid a Ducky-quack,
    And a Beetle, and a Mouse,
    Who took them to their house.

                     V.

    Then they whispered to each other,
    "O delightful little brother,
    What a lovely walk we've taken!
    Let us dine on beans and bacon."
    So the Ducky and the leetle
    Browny-Mousy and the Beetle
    Dined, and danced upon their heads
    Till they toddled to their beds.

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE STORIES.

THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD.

Once upon a time, a long while ago, there were four little people whose
names were

VIOLET, SLINGSBY, GUY, and LIONEL;
and they all thought they should like to see the world. So they bought a
large boat to sail quite round the world by sea, and then they were to come
back on the other side by land. The boat was painted blue with green spots,
and the sail was yellow with red stripes: and, when they set off, they only
took a small Cat to steer and look after the boat, besides an elderly
Quangle-Wangle, who had to cook the dinner and make the tea; for which
purposes they took a large kettle.

For the first ten days they sailed on beautifully, and found plenty to eat,
as there were lots of fish; and they had only to take them out of the sea
with a long spoon, when the Quangle-Wangle instantly cooked them; and the
Pussy-Cat was fed with the bones, with which she expressed herself pleased,
on the whole: so that all the party were very happy.

During the daytime, Violet chiefly occupied herself in putting salt water
into a churn; while her three brothers churned it violently, in the hope
that it would turn into butter, which it seldom if ever did; and in the
evening they all retired into the tea-kettle, where they all managed to
sleep very comfortably, while Pussy and the Quangle-Wangle managed the
boat.

After a time, they saw some land at a distance; and, when they came to it,
they found it was an island made of water quite surrounded by earth.
Besides that, it was bordered by evanescent isthmuses, with a great
gulf-stream running about all over it; so that it was perfectly beautiful,
and contained only a single tree, 503 feet high.

When they had landed, they walked about, but found, to their great
surprise, that the island was quite full of veal-cutlets and
chocolate-drops, and nothing else. So they all climbed up the single high
tree to discover, if possible, if there were any people; but having
remained on the top of the tree for a week, and not seeing anybody, they
naturally concluded that there were no inhabitants; and accordingly, when
they came down, they loaded the boat with two thousand veal-cutlets and a
million of chocolate-drops; and these afforded them sustenance for more
than a month, during which time they pursued their voyage with the utmost
delight and apathy.

After this they came to a shore where there were no less than sixty-five
great red parrots with blue tails, sitting on a rail all of a row, and all
fast asleep. And I am sorry to say that the Pussy-Cat and the
Quangle-Wangle crept softly, and bit off the tail-feathers of all the
sixty-five parrots; for which Violet reproved them both severely.

Notwithstanding which, she proceeded to insert all the feathers--two
hundred and sixty in number--in her bonnet; thereby causing it to have a
lovely and glittering appearance, highly prepossessing and efficacious.

The next thing that happened to them was in a narrow part of the sea, which
was so entirely full of fishes that the boat could go on no farther: so
they remained there about six weeks, till they had eaten nearly all the
fishes, which were soles, and all ready-cooked, and covered with
shrimp-sauce, so that there was no trouble whatever. And as the few fishes
who remained uneaten complained of the cold, as well as of the difficulty
they had in getting any sleep on account of the extreme noise made by the
arctic bears and the tropical turnspits, which frequented the neighborhood
in great numbers, Violet most amiably knitted a small woollen frock for
several of the fishes, and Slingsby administered some opium-drops to them;
through which kindness they became quite warm, and slept soundly.

Then they came to a country which was wholly covered with immense
orange-trees of a vast size, and quite full of fruit. So they all landed,
taking with them the tea-kettle, intending to gather some of the oranges,
and place them in it. But, while they were busy about this, a most
dreadfully high wind rose, and blew out most of the parrot-tail feathers
from Violet's bonnet. That, however, was nothing compared with the calamity
of the oranges falling down on their heads by millions and millions, which
thumped and bumped and bumped and thumped them all so seriously, that they
were obliged to run as hard as they could for their lives; besides that the
sound of the oranges rattling on the tea-kettle was of the most fearful and
amazing nature.

Nevertheless, they got safely to the boat, although considerably vexed and
hurt; and the Quangle-Wangle's right foot was so knocked about, that he had
to sit with his head in his slipper for at least a week.

This event made them all for a time rather melancholy: and perhaps they
might never have become less so, had not Lionel, with a most praiseworthy
devotion and perseverance, continued to stand on one leg, and whistle to
them in a loud and lively manner; which diverted the whole party so
extremely that they gradually recovered their spirits, and agreed that
whenever they should reach home, they would subscribe towards a testimonial
to Lionel, entirely made of gingerbread and raspberries, as an earnest
token of their sincere and grateful infection.

After sailing on calmly for several more days, they came to another
country, where they were much pleased and surprised to see a countless
multitude of white Mice with red eyes, all sitting in a great circle,
slowly eating custard-pudding with the most satisfactory and polite
demeanor.

And as the four travellers were rather hungry, being tired of eating
nothing but soles and oranges for so long a period, they held a council as
to the propriety of asking the Mice for some of their pudding in a humble
and affecting manner, by which they could hardly be otherwise than
gratified. It was agreed, therefore, that Guy should go and ask the Mice,
which he immediately did; and the result was, that they gave a walnut-shell
only half full of custard diluted with water. Now, this displeased Guy, who
said, "Out of such a lot of pudding as you have got, I must say, you might
have spared a somewhat larger quantity." But no sooner had he finished
speaking than the Mice turned round at once, and sneezed at him in an
appalling and vindictive manner (and it is impossible to imagine a more
scroobious and unpleasant sound than that caused by the simultaneous
sneezing of many millions of angry Mice); so that Guy rushed back to the
boat, having first shied his cap into the middle of the custard-pudding, by
which means he completely spoiled the Mice's dinner.

By and by the four children came to a country where there were no houses,
but only an incredibly innumerable number of large bottles without corks,
and of a dazzling and sweetly susceptible blue color. Each of these blue
bottles contained a Blue-Bottle-Fly; and all these interesting animals live
continually together in the most copious and rural harmony: nor perhaps in
many parts of the world is such perfect and abject happiness to be found.
Violet and Slingsby and Guy and Lionel were greatly struck with this
singular and instructive settlement; and, having previously asked
permission of the Blue-Bottle-Flies (which was most courteously granted),
the boat was drawn up to the shore, and they proceeded to make tea in front
of the bottles: but as they had no tea-leaves, they merely placed some
pebbles in the hot water; and the Quangle-Wangle played some tunes over it
on an accordion, by which, of course, tea was made directly, and of the
very best quality.

The four children then entered into conversation with the
Blue-Bottle-Flies, who discoursed in a placid and genteel manner, though
with a slightly buzzing accent, chiefly owing to the fact that they each
held a small clothes-brush between their teeth, which naturally occasioned
a fizzy, extraneous utterance.

"Why," said Violet, "would you kindly inform us, do you reside in bottles;
and, if in bottles at all, why not, rather, in green or purple, or, indeed,
in yellow bottles?"

To which questions a very aged Blue-Bottle-Fly answered, "We found the
bottles here all ready to live in; that is to say, our great-great-great-
great-great-grandfathers did: so we occupied them at once. And, when the
winter comes on, we turn the bottles upside down, and consequently rarely
feel the cold at all; and you know very well that this could not be the
case with bottles of any other color than blue."

"Of course it could not," said Slingsby. "But, if we may take the liberty
of inquiring, on what do you chiefly subsist?"

"Mainly on oyster-patties," said the Blue-Bottle-Fly; "and, when these are
scarce, on raspberry vinegar and Russian leather boiled down to a jelly."

"How delicious!" said Guy.

To which Lionel added, "Huzz!" And all the Blue-Bottle-Flies said, "Buzz!"

At this time, an elderly Fly said it was the hour for the evening-song to
be sung; and, on a signal being given, all the Blue-Bottle-Flies began to
buzz at once in a sumptuous and sonorous manner, the melodious and
mucilaginous sounds echoing all over the waters, and resounding across the
tumultuous tops of the transitory titmice upon the intervening and verdant
mountains with a serene and sickly suavity only known to the truly
virtuous. The Moon was shining slobaciously from the star-bespangled sky,
while her light irrigated the smooth and shiny sides and wings and backs of
the Blue-Bottle-Flies with a peculiar and trivial splendor, while all
Nature cheerfully responded to the cerulean and conspicuous circumstances.

In many long-after years, the four little travellers looked back to that
evening as one of the happiest in all their lives; and it was already past
midnight when--the sail of the boat having been set up by the
Quangle-Wangle, the tea-kettle and churn placed in their respective
positions, and the Pussy-Cat stationed at the helm--the children each took
a last and affectionate farewell of the Blue-Bottle-Flies, who walked down
in a body to the water's edge to see the travellers embark.

As a token of parting respect and esteem, Violet made a courtesy quite down
to the ground, and stuck one of her few remaining parrot-tail feathers into
the back hair of the most pleasing of the Blue-Bottle-Flies; while
Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel offered them three small boxes, containing,
respectively, black pins, dried figs, and Epsom salts; and thus they left
that happy shore forever.

Overcome by their feelings, the four little travellers instantly jumped
into the tea-kettle, and fell fast asleep. But all along the shore, for
many hours, there was distinctly heard a sound of severely-suppressed sobs,
and of a vague multitude of living creatures using their
pocket-handkerchiefs in a subdued simultaneous snuffle, lingering sadly
along the walloping waves as the boat sailed farther and farther away from
the Land of the Happy Blue-Bottle-Flies.

Nothing particular occurred for some days after these events, except that,
as the travellers were passing a low tract of sand, they perceived an
unusual and gratifying spectacle; namely, a large number of Crabs and
Crawfish--perhaps six or seven hundred--sitting by the water-side, and
endeavoring to disentangle a vast heap of pale pink worsted, which they
moistened at intervals with a fluid composed of lavender-water and
white-wine negus.

"Can we be of any service to you, O crusty Crabbies?" said the four
children.

"Thank you kindly," said the Crabs consecutively. "We are trying to make
some worsted mittens, but do not know how."

On which Violet, who was perfectly acquainted with the art of
mitten-making, said to the Crabs, "Do your claws unscrew, or are they
fixtures?"

"They are all made to unscrew," said the Crabs; and forthwith they
deposited a great pile of claws close to the boat, with which Violet
uncombed all the pale pink worsted, and then made the loveliest mittens
with it you can imagine. These the Crabs, having resumed and screwed on
their claws, placed cheerfully upon their wrists, and walked away rapidly
on their hind-legs, warbling songs with a silvery voice and in a minor key.

After this, the four little people sailed on again till they came to a vast
and wide plain of astonishing dimensions, on which nothing whatever could
be discovered at first; but, as the travellers walked onward, there
appeared in the extreme and dim distance a single object, which on a nearer
approach, and on an accurately cutaneous inspection, seemed to be somebody
in a large white wig, sitting on an arm-chair made of sponge-cakes and
oyster-shells. "It does not quite look like a human being," said Violet
doubtfully; nor could they make out what it really was, till the
Quangle-Wangle (who had previously been round the world) exclaimed softly
in a loud voice, "It is the co-operative Cauliflower!"

And so, in truth, it was: and they soon found that what they had taken for
an immense wig was in reality the top of the Cauliflower; and that he had
no feet at all, being able to walk tolerably well with a fluctuating and
graceful movement on a single cabbage-stalk,--an accomplishment which
naturally saved him the expense of stockings and shoes.

Presently, while the whole party from the boat was gazing at him with
mingled affection and disgust, he suddenly arose, and, in a somewhat
plumdomphious manner, hurried off towards the setting sun,--his steps
supported by two superincumbent confidential Cucumbers, and a large number
of Waterwagtails proceeding in advance of him by three and three in a
row,--till he finally disappeared on the brink of the western sky in a
crystal cloud of sudorific sand.

So remarkable a sight, of course, impressed the four children very deeply;
and they returned immediately to their boat with a strong sense of
undeveloped asthma and a great appetite.

Shortly after this, the travellers were obliged to sail directly below some
high overhanging rocks, from the top of one of which a particularly odious
little boy, dressed in rose-colored knickerbockers, and with a pewter plate
upon his head, threw an enormous pumpkin at the boat, by which it was
instantly upset.

But this upsetting was of no consequence, because all the party knew how to
swim very well: and, in fact, they preferred swimming about till after the
moon rose; when, the water growing chilly, they sponge-taneously entered
the boat. Meanwhile the Quangle-Wangle threw back the pumpkin with immense
force, so that it hit the rocks where the malicious little boy in
rose-colored knickerbockers was sitting; when, being quite full of
lucifer-matches, the pumpkin exploded surreptitiously into a thousand bits;
whereon the rocks instantly took fire, and the odious little boy became
unpleasantly hotter and hotter and hotter, till his knickerbockers were
turned quite green, and his nose was burnt off.

Two or three days after this had happened, they came to another place,
where they found nothing at all except some wide and deep pits full of
mulberry-jam. This is the property of the tiny, yellow-nosed Apes who
abound in these districts, and who store up the mulberry-jam for their food
in winter, when they mix it with pellucid pale periwinkle-soup, and serve
it out in wedgewood china-bowls, which grow freely all over that part of
the country. Only one of the yellow-nosed Apes was on the spot, and he was
fast asleep; yet the four travellers and the Quangle-Wangle and Pussy were
so terrified by the violence and sanguinary sound of his snoring, that they
merely took a small cupful of the jam, and returned to re-embark in their
boat without delay.

What was their horror on seeing the boat (including the churn and the
tea-kettle) in the mouth of an enormous Seeze Pyder, an aquatic and
ferocious creature truly dreadful to behold, and, happily, only met with in
those excessive longitudes! In a moment, the beautiful boat was bitten into
fifty-five thousand million hundred billion bits; and it instantly became
quite clear that Violet, Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel could no longer
preliminate their voyage by sea.

The four travellers were therefore obliged to resolve on pursuing their
wanderings by land: and, very fortunately, there happened to pass by at
that moment an elderly Rhinoceros, on which they seized; and, all four
mounting on his back,--the Quangle-Wangle sitting on his horn, and holding
on by his ears, and the Pussy-Cat swinging at the end of his tail,--they
set off, having only four small beans and three pounds of mashed potatoes
to last through their whole journey.

They were, however, able to catch numbers of the chickens and turkeys and
other birds who incessantly alighted on the head of the Rhinoceros for the
purpose of gathering the seeds of the rhododendron-plants which grew
there; and these creatures they cooked in the most translucent and
satisfactory manner by means of a fire lighted on the end of the
Rhinoceros's back. A crowd of Kangaroos and gigantic Cranes accompanied
them, from feelings of curiosity and complacency; so that they were never
at a loss for company, and went onward, as it were, in a sort of profuse
and triumphant procession.

Thus in less than eighteen weeks they all arrived safely at home, where
they were received by their admiring relatives with joy tempered with
contempt, and where they finally resolved to carry out the rest of their
travelling-plans at some more favorable opportunity.

As for the Rhinoceros, in token of their grateful adherence, they had him
killed and stuffed directly, and then set him up outside the door of their
father's house as a diaphanous doorscraper.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF
THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

In former days,--that is to say, once upon a time,--there lived in the Land
of Gramble-Blamble seven families. They lived by the side of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple (one of the seven families, indeed, lived _in_ the lake), and
on the outskirts of the city of Tosh, which, excepting when it was quite
dark, they could see plainly. The names of all these places you have
probably heard of; and you have only not to look in your geography-books to
find out all about them.

Now, the seven families who lived on the borders of the great Lake
Pipple-Popple were as follows in the next chapter.

CHAPTER II.

THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

There was a family of two old Parrots and seven young Parrots.

There was a family of two old Storks and seven young Storks.

There was a family of two old Geese and seven young Geese.

There was a family of two old Owls and seven young Owls.

There was a family of two old Guinea Pigs and seven young Guinea Pigs.

There was a family of two old Cats and seven young Cats.

And there was a family of two old Fishes and seven young Fishes.

CHAPTER III.

THE HABITS OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

The Parrots lived upon the Soffsky-Poffsky trees, which were beautiful to
behold, and covered with blue leaves; and they fed upon fruit, artichokes,
and striped beetles.

The Storks walked in and out of the Lake Pipple-Popple, and ate frogs for
breakfast, and buttered toast for tea; but on account of the extreme length
of their legs they could not sit down, and so they walked about
continually.

The Geese, having webs to their feet, caught quantities of flies, which
they ate for dinner.

The Owls anxiously looked after mice, which they caught, and made into
sago-puddings.

The Guinea Pigs toddled about the gardens, and ate lettuces and Cheshire
cheese.

The Cats sate still in the sunshine, and fed upon sponge biscuits.

The Fishes lived in the lake, and fed chiefly on boiled periwinkles.

And all these seven families lived together in the utmost fun and felicity.

CHAPTER IV.

THE CHILDREN OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES ARE SENT AWAY.

One day all the seven fathers and the seven mothers of the seven families
agreed that they would send their children out to see the world.

So they called them all together, and gave them each eight shillings and
some good advice, some chocolate-drops, and a small green morocco
pocket-book to set down their expenses in.

They then particularly entreated them not to quarrel; and all the parents
sent off their children with a parting injunction.

"If," said the old Parrots, "you find a cherry, do not fight about who
should have it."

"And," said the old Storks, "if you find a frog, divide it carefully into
seven bits, but on no account quarrel about it."

And the old Geese said to the seven young Geese, "Whatever you do, be sure
you do not touch a plum-pudding flea."

And the old Owls said, "If you find a mouse, tear him up into seven slices,
and eat him cheerfully, but without quarrelling."

And the old Guinea Pigs said, "Have a care that you eat your lettuces,
should you find any, not greedily, but calmly."

And the old Cats said, "Be particularly careful not to meddle with a
clangle-wangle if you should see one."

And the old Fishes said, "Above all things, avoid eating a blue boss-woss;
for they do not agree with fishes, and give them a pain in their toes."

So all the children of each family thanked their parents; and, making in
all forty-nine polite bows, they went into the wide world.

CHAPTER V.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG PARROTS.

The seven young Parrots had not gone far, when they saw a tree with a
single cherry on it, which the oldest Parrot picked instantly; but the
other six, being extremely hungry, tried to get it also. On which all the
seven began to fight; and they
scuffled,
     and huffled,
       and ruffled,
         and shuffled,
           and puffled,
             and muffled,
               and buffled,
                 and duffled,
                   and fluffled,
                     and guffled,
                       and bruffled,
                         and screamed, and shrieked, and squealed,
and squeaked, and clawed, and snapped, and bit, and bumped, and thumped,
and dumped, and flumped each other, till they were all torn into little
bits; and at last there was nothing left to record this painful incident
except the cherry and seven small green feathers.

And that was the vicious and voluble end of the seven young Parrots.

CHAPTER VI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG STORKS.

When the seven young Storks set out, they walked or flew for fourteen weeks
in a straight line, and for six weeks more in a crooked one; and after that
they ran as hard as they could for one hundred and eight miles; and after
that they stood still, and made a himmeltanious chatter-clatter-blattery
noise with their bills.

About the same time they perceived a large frog, spotted with green, and
with a sky-blue stripe under each ear.

So, being hungry, they immediately flew at him, and were going to divide
him into seven pieces, when they began to quarrel as to which of his legs
should be taken off first. One said this, and another said that; and while
they were all quarrelling, the frog hopped away. And when they saw that he
was gone, they began to
  chatter-clatter,
      blatter-platter,
          patter-blatter,
              matter-clatter,
                  flatter-quatter,
more violently than ever; and after they
had fought for a week, they pecked each other all to little pieces, so that
at last nothing was left of any of them except their bills.

And that was the end of the seven young Storks.

CHAPTER VII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GEESE.

When the seven young Geese began to travel, they went over a large plain,
on which there was but one tree, and that was, a very bad one.

So four of them went up to the top of it, and looked about them; while the
other three waddled up and down, and repeated poetry, and their last six
lessons in arithmetic, geography, and cookery.

Presently they perceived, a long way off, an object of the most interesting
and obese appearance, having a perfectly round body exactly resembling a
boiled plum-pudding, with two little wings, and a beak, and three feathers
growing out of his head, and only one leg.

So, after a time, all the seven young Geese said to each other, "Beyond all
doubt this beast must be a Plum-pudding Flea!"

On which they incautiously began to sing aloud,

       "Plum-pudding Flea,
        Plum-pudding Flea,
        Wherever you be,
        Oh! come to our tree,
    And listen, oh! listen, oh! listen to me!"

And no sooner had they sung this verse than the Plum-pudding Flea began to
hop and skip on his one leg with the most dreadful velocity, and came
straight to the tree, where he stopped, and looked about him in a vacant
and voluminous manner.

On which the seven young Geese were greatly alarmed, and all of a
tremble-bemble: so one of them put out his long neck, and just touched him
with the tip of his bill; but no sooner had he done this than the
Plum-pudding Flea skipped and hopped about more and more, and higher and
higher; after which he opened his mouth, and, to the great surprise and
indignation of the seven Geese, began to bark so loudly and furiously and
terribly, that they were totally unable to bear the noise; and by degrees
every one of them suddenly tumbled down quite dead.

So that was the end of the seven young Geese.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG OWLS.

When the seven young Owls set out, they sate every now and then on the
branches of old trees, and never went far at one time.

And one night, when it was quite dark, they thought they heard a mouse;
but, as the gas-lamps were not lighted, they could not see him.

So they called out, "Is that a mouse?"

On which a mouse answered, "Squeaky-peeky-weeky! yes, it is!"

And immediately all the young Owls threw themselves off the tree, meaning
to alight on the ground; but they did not perceive that there was a large
well below them, into which they all fell superficially, and were every one
of them drowned in less than half a minute.

So that was the end of the seven young Owls.

CHAPTER IX.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GUINEA PIGS.

The seven young Guinea Pigs went into a garden full of goose-berry-bushes
and tiggory-trees, under one of which they fell asleep. When they awoke,
they saw a large lettuce, which had grown out of the ground while they had
been sleeping, and which had an immense number of green leaves. At which
they all exclaimed,--

   "Lettuce! O lettuce
    Let us, O let us,
    O lettuce-leaves,
    O let us leave this tree, and eat
    Lettuce, O let us, lettuce-leaves!"

And instantly the seven young Guinea Pigs rushed with such extreme force
against the lettuce-plant, and hit their heads so vividly against its
stalk, that the concussion brought on directly an incipient transitional
inflammation of their noses, which grew worse and worse and worse and
worse, till it incidentally killed them all seven.

And that was the end of the seven young Guinea Pigs.

CHAPTER X.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG CATS.

The seven young Cats set off on their travels with great delight and
rapacity. But, on coming to the top of a high hill, they perceived at a
long distance off a Clangle-Wangle (or, as it is more properly written,
Clangel-Wangel); and, in spite of the warning they had had, they ran
straight up to it.

(Now, the Clangle-Wangle is a most dangerous and delusive beast, and by no
means commonly to be met with. They live in the water as well as on land,
using their long tail as a sail when in the former element. Their speed is
extreme; but their habits of life are domestic and superfluous, and their
general demeanor pensive and pellucid. On summer evenings, they may
sometimes be observed near the Lake Pipple-Popple, standing on their heads,
and humming their national melodies. They subsist entirely on vegetables,
excepting when they eat veal or mutton or pork or beef or fish or
saltpetre.)

The moment the Clangle-Wangle saw the seven young Cats approach, he ran
away; and as he ran straight on for four months, and the Cats, though they
continued to run, could never overtake him, they all gradually _died_ of
fatigue and exhaustion, and never afterwards recovered.

And this was the end of the seven young Cats.

CHAPTER XI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG FISHES.

The seven young Fishes swam across the Lake Pipple-Popple, and into the
river, and into the ocean; where, most unhappily for them, they saw, on the
fifteenth day of their travels, a bright-blue Boss-Woss, and instantly swam
after him. But the Blue Boss-Woss plunged into a
    perpendicular,
        spicular,
            orbicular,
                quadrangular,
                     circular depth of soft mud;
where, in fact, his house was.

And the seven young Fishes, swimming with great and uncomfortable velocity,
plunged also into the mud quite against their will, and, not being
accustomed to it, were all suffocated in a very short period.

And that was the end of the seven young Fishes.

CHAPTER XII.

OF WHAT OCCURRED SUBSEQUENTLY.

After it was known that the

            seven young Parrots,
    and the seven young Storks,
    and the seven young Geese,
    and the seven young Owls,
    and the seven young Guinea Pigs,
    and the seven young Cats,
    and the seven young Fishes,

were all dead, then the Frog, and the Plum-pudding Flea, and the Mouse, and
the Clangle-Wangle, and the Blue Boss-Woss, all met together to rejoice
over their good fortune. And they collected the seven feathers of the seven
young Parrots, and the seven bills of the seven young Storks, and the
lettuce, and the cherry; and having placed the latter on the lettuce, and
the other objects in a circular arrangement at their base, they danced a
hornpipe round all these memorials until they were quite tired; after which
they gave a tea-party, and a garden-party, and a ball, and a concert, and
then returned to their respective homes full of joy and respect, sympathy,
satisfaction, and disgust.

CHAPTER XIII.

OF WHAT BECAME OF THE PARENTS OF THE FORTY-NINE CHILDREN.

BUT when the two old Parrots,
     and the two old Storks,
     and the two old Geese,
     and the two old Owls,
     and the two old Guinea Pigs,
     and the two old Cats,
     and the two old Fishes,

became aware, by reading in the newspapers, of the calamitous extinction of
the whole of their families, they refused all further sustenance; and,
sending out to various shops, they purchased great quantities of Cayenne
pepper and brandy and vinegar and blue sealing-wax, besides seven immense
glass bottles with air-tight stoppers. And, having done this, they ate a
light supper of brown-bread and Jerusalem artichokes, and took an
affecting and formal leave of the whole of their acquaintance, which was
very numerous and distinguished and select and responsible and ridiculous.

CHAPTER XIV.

CONCLUSION.

And after this they filled the bottles with the ingredients for pickling,
and each couple jumped into a separate bottle; by which effort, of course,
they all died immediately, and became thoroughly pickled in a few minutes;
having previously made their wills (by the assistance of the most eminent
lawyers of the district), in which they left strict orders that the
stoppers of the seven bottles should be carefully sealed up with the blue
sealing-wax they had purchased; and that they themselves, in the bottles,
should be presented to the principal museum of the city of Tosh, to be
labelled with parchment or any other anti-congenial succedaneum, and to be
placed on a marble table with silver-gilt legs, for the daily inspection
and contemplation, and for the perpetual benefit, of the pusillanimous
public.

And if you ever happen to go to Gramble-Blamble, and visit that museum in
the city of Tosh, look for them on the ninety-eighth table in the four
hundred and twenty-seventh room of the right-hand corridor of the left wing
of the central quadrangle of that magnificent building; for, if you do not,
you certainly will not see them.

       *        *        *        *        *

                 NONSENSE COOKERY.

Extract from "The Nonsense Gazette," for August, 1870.

"Our readers will be interested in the following communications from our
valued and learned contributor, Prof. Bosh, whose labors in the fields of
culinary and botanical science are so well known to all the world. The
first three articles richly merit to be added to the domestic cookery of
every family: those which follow claim the attention of all botanists; and
we are happy to be able, through Dr. Bosh's kindness, to present our
readers with illustrations of his discoveries. All the new flowers are
found in the Valley of Verrikwier, near the Lake of Oddgrow, and on the
summit of the Hill Orfeltugg."

THREE RECEIPTS FOR DOMESTIC COOKERY.

TO MAKE AN AMBLONGUS PIE.

Take 4 pounds (say 4-1/2 pounds) of fresh Amblongusses, and put them in a
small pipkin.

Cover them with water, and boil them for 8 hours incessantly; after which
add 2 pints of new milk, and proceed to boil for 4 hours more.

When you have ascertained that the Amblongusses are quite soft, take them
out, and place them in a wide pan, taking care to shake them well
previously.

Grate some nutmeg over the surface, and cover them carefully with powdered
gingerbread, curry-powder, and a sufficient quantity of Cayenne pepper.

Remove the pan into the next room, and place it on the floor. Bring it back
again, and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Shake the pan
violently till all the Amblongusses have become of a pale purple color.

Then, having prepared the paste, insert the whole carefully; adding at the
same time a small pigeon, 2 slices of beef, 4 cauliflowers, and any number
of oysters.

Watch patiently till the crust begins to rise, and add a pinch of salt from
time to time.

Serve up in a clean dish, and throw the whole out of window as fast as
possible.

TO MAKE CRUMBOBBLIOUS CUTLETS.

Procure some strips of beef, and, having cut them into the smallest
possible slices, proceed to cut them still smaller,--eight, or perhaps
nine times.

When the whole is thus minced, brush it up hastily with a new
clothes-brush, and stir round rapidly and capriciously with a salt-spoon
or a soup-ladle.

Place the whole in a saucepan, and remove it to a sunny place,--say the
roof of the house, if free from sparrows or other birds,--and leave it
there for about a week.

At the end of that time add a little lavender, some oil of almonds, and a
few herring-bones; and then cover the whole with 4 gallons of clarified
Crumbobblious sauce, when it will be ready for use.

Cut it into the shape of ordinary cutlets, and serve up in a clean
table-cloth or dinner-napkin.

TO MAKE GOSKY PATTIES.

Take a pig three or four years of age, and tie him by the off hind-leg to a
post. Place 5 pounds of currants, 3 of sugar, 2 pecks of peas, 18 roast
chestnuts, a candle, and 6 bushels of turnips, within his reach: if he eats
these, constantly provide him with more.

Then procure some cream, some slices of Cheshire cheese, 4 quires of
foolscap paper, and a packet of black pins. Work the whole into a paste,
and spread it out to dry on a sheet of clean brown waterproof linen.

When the paste is perfectly dry, but not before, proceed to beat the pig
violently with the handle of a large broom. If he squeals, beat him again.

Visit the paste and beat the pig alternately for some days, and ascertain
if, at the end of that period, the whole is about to turn into Gosky
Patties.

If it does not then, it never will; and in that case the pig may be let
loose, and the whole process may be considered as finished.

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE BOTANY.

       *        *        *        *        *

NONSENSE ALPHABETS.

            A

    A was an ant
    Who seldom stood still,
    And who made a nice house
    In the side of a hill.

            a!
     Nice little ant!

            B

    B was a book
    With a binding of blue,
    And pictures and stories
    For me and for you.

            b!
     Nice little book!

            C

    C was a cat
    Who ran after a rat;
    But his courage did fail
    When she seized on his tail.

            c!
      Crafty old cat!

            D

    D was a duck
    With spots on his back,
    Who lived in the water,
    And always said "Quack!"

            d!
      Dear little duck!

            E

    E was an elephant,
    Stately and wise:
    He had tusks and a trunk,
    And two queer little eyes.

            e!
    Oh, what funny small eyes!

            F

    F was a fish
    Who was caught in a net;
    But he got out again,
    And is quite alive yet.

            f!
      Lively young fish!

            G

    G was a goat
    Who was spotted with brown:
    When he did not lie still
    He walked up and down.

            g!
      Good little goat!

            H

    H was a hat
    Which was all on one side;
    Its crown was too high,
    And its brim was too wide.

            h!
      Oh, what a hat!

            I

    I was some ice
    So white and so nice,
    But which nobody tasted;
    And so it was wasted.

            i!
    All that good ice!

            J

    J was a jackdaw
    Who hopped up and down
    In the principal street
    Of a neighboring town.

            j!
     All through the town!

            K

    K was a kite
    Which flew out of sight,
    Above houses so high,
    Quite into the sky.

            k
       Fly away, kite!

            L

    L was a light
    Which burned all the night,
    And lighted the gloom
    Of a very dark room.

            l!
     Useful nice light!

            M

    M was a mill
    Which stood on a hill,
    And turned round and round
    With a loud hummy sound.

            m!
      Useful old mill!

            N

    N was a net
    Which was thrown in the sea
    To catch fish for dinner
    For you and for me.

            n!
      Nice little net!

            O

    O was an orange
    So yellow and round:
    When it fell off the tree,
    It fell down to the ground.

            o!
    Down to the ground!

            P

    P was a pig,
    Who was not very big;
    But his tail was too curly,
    And that made him surly.

            p!
    Cross little pig!

            Q

    Q was a quail
    With a very short tail;
    And he fed upon corn
    In the evening and morn.

            q!
    Quaint little quail!

            R

    R was a rabbit,
    Who had a bad habit
    Of eating the flowers
    In gardens and bowers.

            r!
     Naughty fat rabbit!

            S

    S was the sugar-tongs,
    Nippity-nee,
    To take up the sugar
    To put in our tea.

            s!
       Nippity-nee!

            T

    T was a tortoise,
    All yellow and black:
    He walked slowly away,
    And he never came back.

            t!
    Torty never came back!

            U

    U was an urn
    All polished and bright,
    And full of hot water
    At noon and at night.

            u!
     Useful old urn!

            V

    V was a villa
    Which stood on a hill,
    By the side of a river,
    And close to a mill.

            v!
    Nice little villa!

            W

    W was a whale
    With a very long tail,
    Whose movements were frantic
    Across the Atlantic.

            w!
   Monstrous old whale!

            X

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who, more than all Turks, is
    Renowned for his fashion
    Of fury and passion.

            x!
    Angry old Xerxes!

            Y

    Y was a yew,
    Which flourished and grew
    By a quiet abode
    Near the side of a road.

            y!
     Dark little yew!

            Z

    Z was some zinc,
    So shiny and bright,
    Which caused you to wink
    In the sun's merry light.

            z!
       Beautiful zinc!

            A

            a

    A was once an apple-pie,
        Pidy,
        Widy,
        Tidy,
        Pidy,
      Nice insidy,
      Apple-pie!

            B

            b

    B was once a little bear,
        Beary,
        Wary,
        Hairy,
        Beary,
      Taky cary,
      Little bear!

            C

            c

    C was once a little cake,
        Caky,
        Baky,
        Maky,
        Caky,
      Taky caky,
      Little cake!

            D

            d

    D was once a little doll,
        Dolly,
        Molly,
        Polly,
        Nolly,
      Nursy dolly,
      Little doll!

            E

            e

    E was once a little eel,
        Eely,
        Weely,
        Peely,
        Eely,
      Twirly, tweely,
        Little eel!

            F

            f

    F was once a little fish,
        Fishy,
        Wishy,
        Squishy,
        Fishy,
      In a dishy,
      Little fish!

            G

            g

    G was once a little goose,
        Goosy,
        Moosy,
        Boosey,
        Goosey,
      Waddly-woosy,
      Little goose!

            H

            h

    H was once a little hen,
        Henny,
        Chenny,
        Tenny,
        Henny.
      Eggsy-any,
      Little hen?

            I

            i

    I was once a bottle of ink
        Inky,
        Dinky,
        Thinky,
        Inky,
      Blacky minky,
      Bottle of ink!

            J

            j

    J was once a jar of jam,
        Jammy,
        Mammy,
        Clammy,
        Jammy,
      Sweety, swammy,
        Jar of jam!

            K

            k

    K was once a little kite,
        Kity,
        Whity,
        Flighty,
        Kity,
      Out of sighty,
        Little kite!

            L

            l

    L was once a little lark,
        Larky,
        Marky,
        Harky,
        Larky,
      In the parky,
      Little lark!

            M

            m

    M was once a little mouse,
        Mousy,
        Bousy,
        Sousy,
        Mousy,
      In the housy,
      Little mouse!

            N

            n

    N was once a little needle,
        Needly,
        Tweedly,
        Threedly,
        Needly,
      Wisky, wheedly,
      Little needle!

            O

            o

    O was once a little owl,
        Owly,
        Prowly,
        Howly,
        Owly,
      Browny fowly,
      Little owl!

            P

            p

    P was once a little pump,
        Pumpy,
        Slumpy,
        Flumpy,
        Pumpy,
      Dumpy, thumpy,
        Little pump!

            Q

            q

    Q was once a little quail,
        Quaily,
        Faily,
        Daily,
        Quaily,
      Stumpy-taily,
      Little quail!

            R

            r

    R was once a little rose,
        Rosy,
        Posy,
        Nosy,
        Rosy,
     Blows-y, grows-y,
       Little rose!

            S

            s

    S was once a little shrimp,
        Shrimpy,
        Nimpy,
        Flimpy,
        Shrimpy.
     Jumpy, jimpy,
      Little shrimp!

            T

            t

    T was once a little thrush,
        Thrushy,
        Hushy,
        Bushy,
        Thrushy,
      Flitty, flushy,
      Little thrush!

            U

            u

    U was once a little urn,
           Urny,
           Burny,
           Turny,
           Urny,
      Bubbly, burny,
        Little urn!

            V

            v

    V was once a little vine,
        Viny,
        Winy,
        Twiny,
        Viny,
      Twisty-twiny,
      Little vine!

            W

            w

    W was once a whale,
        Whaly,
        Scaly,
        Shaly,
        Whaly,
      Tumbly-taily,
      Mighty whale!

            X

            x

    X was once a great king Xerxes,
          Xerxy,
          Perxy,
          Turxy,
          Xerxy,
        Linxy, lurxy,
      Great King Xerxes!

            Y

            y

    Y was once a little yew,
        Yewdy,
        Fewdy,
        Crudy,
        Yewdy,
    Growdy, grewdy,
      Little yew!

            Z

            z

    Z was once a piece of zinc,
        Tinky,
        Winky,
        Blinky,
        Tinky,
      Tinkly minky,
      Piece of zinc!

            A

    A was an ape,
    Who stole some white tape,
    And tied up his toes
    In four beautiful bows.

            a!

    Funny old ape!

            B

    B was a bat,
    Who slept all the day,
    And fluttered about
    When the sun went away.

            b!

    Brown little bat!

            C

    C was a camel:
    You rode on his hump;
    And if you fell off,
    You came down such a bump!

            c!

    What a high camel!

            D

    D was a dove,
    Who lived in a wood,
    With such pretty soft wings,
    And so gentle and good!

            d!

    Dear little dove!

            E

    E was an eagle,
    Who sat on the rocks,
    And looked down on the fields
    And the-far-away flocks.

            e!

    Beautiful eagle!

            F

    F was a fan
    Made of beautiful stuff;
    And when it was used,
    It went puffy-puff-puff!

            f!

    Nice little fan!

            G

    G was a gooseberry,
    Perfectly red;
    To be made into jam,
    And eaten with bread.

            g!

    Gooseberry red!

            H

    H was a heron,
    Who stood in a stream:
    The length of his neck
    And his legs was extreme.

            h!

    Long-legged heron!

            I

    I was an inkstand,
    Which stood on a table,
    With a nice pen to write with
    When we are able.

            i!

    Neat little inkstand!

            J

    J was a jug,
    So pretty and white,
    With fresh water in it
    At morning and night.

            j!

    Nice little jug!

            K

    K was a kingfisher:
    Quickly he flew,
    So bright and so pretty!--
    Green, purple, and blue.

            k!

    Kingfisher blue!

            L

    L was a lily,
    So white and so sweet!
    To see it and smell it
    Was quite a nice treat.

            l!

    Beautiful lily!

            M

    M was a man,
    Who walked round and round;
    And he wore a long coat
    That came down to the ground.

            m!

    Funny old man!

            N

    N was a nut
    So smooth and so brown!
    And when it was ripe,
    It fell tumble-dum-down.

            n!

    Nice little nut!

            O

    O was an oyster,
    Who lived in his shell:
    If you let him alone,
    He felt perfectly well.

            o!

    Open-mouthed oyster!

            P

    P was a polly,
    All red, blue, and green,--
    The most beautiful polly
    That ever was seen.

            p!

    Poor little polly!

            Q

    Q was a quill
    Made into a pen;
    But I do not know where,
    And I cannot say when.

            q!

    Nice little quill!

            R

    R was a rattlesnake,
    Rolled up so tight,
    Those who saw him ran quickly,
    For fear he should bite.

            r!

    Rattlesnake bite!

            S

    S was a screw
    To screw down a box;
    And then it was fastened
    Without any locks.

            s!

    Valuable screw!

            T

    T was a thimble,
    Of silver so bright!
    When placed on the finger,
    It fitted so tight!

            t!

    Nice little thimble!

            U

    U was an upper-coat,
    Woolly and warm,
    To wear over all
    In the snow or the storm.

            u!

    What a nice upper-coat!

            V

    V was a veil
    With a border upon it,
    And a ribbon to tie it
    All round a pink bonnet.

            v!

    Pretty green veil!

            W

    W was a watch,
    Where, in letters of gold,
    The hour of the day
    You might always behold.

            w!

    Beautiful watch!

            X

    X was King Xerxes,
    Who wore on his head
    A mighty large turban,
    Green, yellow, and red.

            x!

    Look at King Xerxes!

            Y

    Y was a yak,
    From the land of Thibet:
    Except his white tail,
    He was all black as jet.

            y!

    Look at the yak!

            Z

    Z was a zebra,
    All striped white and black;
    And if he were tame,
    You might ride on his back.

            z!

    Pretty striped zebra!Songs of Childhood

by Walter Ramal

_with a preface for the Garland edition by_

Anthony Hecht

_Garland Publishing, Inc., New York & London_

Bibliographical note:

This facsimile has been made from a copy in the Beinecke Library of
Yale University. (Iq.D373.902)

Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data De La Mare,
Walter John, 1873-1956. Songs of childhood.

(Classics of children's literature, 1621-1932)

Reprint of the 1902 ed. published by Longmans, Green, London, New York.

"Walter de la Mare (1873-1956), bibliography of his books for
children": p.

SUMMARY: A collection of forty-seven poems about subjects and
experiences familiar to children.

[1. English poetry]  I. Title.  II. Series.

_Printed in the United States of America_

_Preface_

The Romantic poets rediscovered a pastoral and Biblical dream: that a
child was the most innocent and the wisest of us all. Wordsworth
hailed him as "Mighty Prophet! Seer blest!" And in the next generation
Victorian novelists took that dream seriously enough to make children
the heroes and heroines of their most searching fictions. There had
been no "children's literature" to speak of before, except for the
oral and "popular" tradition, including lullabies and _Mother Goose_,
some of which go back as far as Tudor and even medieval times.

Children's literature today is an immense and complex domain; and
leaving aside for the present the works composed by children
themselves, what remains varies tremendously in skill and delight, as
well as in subtlety and intention. So I shall also set aside those
minimal "vocabulary-building" tales and verses whose small virtues are
rarely more than therapeutic, and direct myself only to that
specialized but most important category--poems written by a skilled
and adult poet but addressed to an audience of children who are likely
to be read to until they are skillful enough to read the same verses
for themselves.

The dangers for the poet in addressing so composite an audience are
enormous: cuteness, coyness, archness and condescension are only the
most obvious ones. Some great writers of children's verse--Lewis
Carroll and Edward Lear--have successfully hedged themselves against
these dangers by insistent comedy and parody (Carroll's "serious"
children's verse is maudlin and embarrassing). By this means they have
contrived what the child will take as lovely, unintimidating,
mysterious, rational nonsense, and what the adult will recognize as a
travesty or burlesque of something very edgy indeed. Thus, Lear's "The
Dong with the Luminous Nose" and Carroll's "Jabberwocky" are,
respectively, bright and disguised versions of gothic terror and
misery on the one hand, and medieval knightly exploit on the other,
both rendered innocuous for the nursery and ridiculous for the adult.
The risks of seriousness have been successfully avoided.

The poetry of Walter de la Mare sings boldly and beautifully without
any of these hedges and condescensions. His work has the honest candor
of the border ballads and the fairy tales: as well as unmitigated
joys, they are full of the dangers and horrors and sorrows that every
child soon knows to be part of the world, however vainly parents try
to veil them. A child's curiosity about the forbidden will insist on
being satisfied; and better by verse than otherwise. This poetry is
also musically astute and demanding; it may surprise and alert the
parental reader; and it has its share of archaisms and poeticisms,
which, contrary to adult surmise, bemuse and fascinate children. And
it must be admitted that it is also relentlessly British; but then, so
is much good children's literature.

As a poet (he was also a gifted novelist and short-story writer) de la
Mare was praised by T. S. Eliot ("the delicate, invisible web you
wove") and by W. H. Auden ("there are no good poems which are only for
children"). His technical and linguistic skills are not, as Auden
rightly points out, a matter of indifference to children, who are in
the very business of learning language, as well as other facts of
life, and who are particularly sensitive to verbal rhythms, as Iona
and Peter Opie have splendidly demonstrated in _The Lore and Language
of Schoolchildren_.

Just as important, this is a poetry of charms and spells, witches and
dwarfs, ogres and fairies, full of dangers, omens, riddles and
triumphs. In "The Ogre," for example, two sleeping children are about
to be plucked by an enormous ogre from their home:

    Into their dreams no shadow fell
      Of his disastrous thumb
    Groping discreet, and gradual,
      Across the quiet room.

But he is stopped, spellbound, abashed and defeated by the mother of
the children, who is in another room and, all unaware of the danger,
is singing a version of the Coventry Carol (which, in its original, is
addressed to the Christ Child) as a lullaby to her new-born baby.

I would guess that any child fortunate enough to grow up with these
poems ringing in memory's ear might have a remarkable reservoir of
music and excitement available to him. That is not a small gift.

Anthony Hecht

_ANTHONY HECHT teaches in the English Department of the University of
Rochester. He is the author of several books of poetry, of which the
most recent are_ The Hard Hours _(1967) and_ Aesopic _(1968). His poems
appear in many anthologies and he has contributed to the_ Hudson
Review, _the_ New York Review of Books, Quarterly Review of Literature,
_and other periodicals. He also translated (with Helen H. Bacon)
Aeschylus'_ Seven Against Thebes _(1973)._

WALTER DE LA MARE (1873-1956)

Bibliography of His Books for Children
(Poetry):

_Songs of Childhood._ London 1902.

_A Child's Day: a Book of Rhymes to Pictures by C. W. Cadby._
London 1912.

_Peacock Pie: a Book of Rhymes._ London 1913.

_Down-adown-derry: a Book of Fairy Poems._ London 1922.

_Stuff and Nonsense._ London 1927.

_Poems for Children._ London [1930].

_This Year, Next Year._ London 1937.

_Bells and Grass._ London 1941.

_Collected Rhymes and Verses._ London 1944.

Bibliography of His Books for Children
(Stories, Plays):

_The Three Mulla-mulgars._ London 1910.

_Crossings; a Fairy Play, with Music by E. A. Gibbs._ London 1921.

_Story and Rhyme._ London 1921.

_Broomsticks and Other Tales._ London 1925.

_Miss Jemima._ Oxford [1925].

_Told Again: Traditional Tales._ Oxford 1927.

_Readings: Traditional Tales 1925-1928._ Oxford 1928.

_Old Joe._ Oxford [1927].

_Stories from the Bible._ London 1929.

_The Lord Fish and Other Tales._ London [1933].

_The Old Lion and Other Stories._ London 1942.

_The Magic Jacket and Other Stories._ London 1943.

_The Scarecrow and Other Stories._ London 1944.

_The Dutch Cheese and Other Stories._ London 1946.

_Collected Stories for Children._ London 1947.

Selected References:

Atkins, John W. H. _Walter de la Mare: an Exploration._ London
[1947].

Clark, L. _Walter de la Mare_ (_a Bodley monograph_). London
1960.

McCrosson, D. R. _Walter de la Mare._ New York 1966.

SONGS OF CHILDHOOD

Songs of Childhood

By

WALTER RAMAL

_WITH FRONTISPIECE_

LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.
39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON
NEW YORK AND BOMBAY

CONTENTS

'UNDER THE DOCK LEAVES,'                      _Frontispiece_
_From a drawing by_ RICHARD DOYLE
_in the possession of_ C. J. LONGMAN, Esq.

                                                       Page

    THE GNOMIES

    As I lay awake in the white moonlight,
    I heard a sweet singing in the wood--
          'Out of bed,
          Sleepyhead,
          Put your white foot now,
          Here are we,
          'Neath the tree,
          Singing round the root now!'

    I looked out of window in the white moonlight,
    The trees were like snow in the wood--
          'Come away
          Child and play,
          Light wi' the gnomies;
          In a mound,
          Green and round,
          That's where their home is!
          'Honey sweet,
          Curds to eat,
          Cream and frumenty,
          Shells and beads,
          Poppy seeds,
          You shall have plenty.'

    But soon as I stooped in the dim moonlight
    To put on my stocking and my shoe,
    The sweet, sweet singing died sadly away,
    And the light of the morning peep'd through:
    Then instead of the gnomies there came a red robin
    To sing of the buttercups and dew.

    BLUEBELLS

    Where the bluebells and the wind are,
    Fairies in a ring I spied,
    And I heard a little linnet
    Singing near beside.

    Where the primrose and the dew are,
    Soon were sped the fairies all:
    Only now the green turf freshens,
    And the linnets call.

    LOVELOCKS

    I watched the Lady Caroline
    Bind up her dark and beauteous hair;
    Her face was rosy in the glass,
    And 'twixt the coils her hands would pass,
        White in the candleshine.

    Her bottles on the table lay,
    Stoppered yet sweet of violet;
    Her image in the mirror stooped
    To view those locks as lightly looped
        As cherry-boughs in May.

    The snowy night lay dim without,
    I heard the Waits their sweet song sing;
    The window smouldered keen with frost;
    Yet still she twisted, sleeked and tossed
        Her beauteous hair about.

    O DEAR ME!

    Here are crocuses, white, gold, grey!
      'O dear me!' says Marjorie May;
    Flat as a platter the blackberry blows:
      'O dear me!' says Madeleine Rose;
    The leaves are fallen, the swallows flown:
      'O dear me!' says Humphrey John;
    Snow lies thick where all night it fell:
      'O dear me!' says Emmanuel.

    TARTARY

    If I were Lord of Tartary,
      Myself and me alone,
    My bed should be of ivory,
      Of beaten gold my throne;
    And in my court should peacocks flaunt,
    And in my forests tigers haunt,
    And in my pools great fishes slant
      Their fins athwart the sun.

    If I were Lord of Tartary,
      Trumpeters every day
    To all my meals should summon me,
      And in my courtyards bray;
    And in the evenings lamps should shine,
    Yellow as honey, red as wine,
    While harp, and flute, and mandoline,
      Made music sweet and gay.

    If I were Lord of Tartary,
      I'd wear a robe of beads,
    White, and gold, and green they'd be--
      And small, and thick as seeds;
    And ere should wane the morning-star,
    I'd don my robe and scimitar,
    And zebras seven should draw my car
      Through Tartary's dark glades.

    Lord of the fruits of Tartary,
      Her rivers silver-pale!
    Lord of the hills of Tartary,
      Glen, thicket, wood, and dale!
    Her flashing stars, her scented breeze,
    Her trembling lakes, like foamless seas,
    Her bird-delighting citron-trees
      In every purple vale!

    THE BUCKLE

    I had a silver buckle,
    I sewed it on my shoe,
    And 'neath a sprig of mistletoe
    I danced the evening through!

    I had a bunch of cowslips,
    I hid 'em in a grot,
    In case the elves should come by night
    And me remember not.

    I had a yellow riband,
    I tied it in my hair,
    That, walking in the garden,
    The birds might see it there.

    I had a secret laughter,
    I laughed it near the wall:
    Only the ivy and the wind
    May tell of it at all.

    THE HARE

    In the black furrow of a field
    I saw an old witch-hare this night;
    And she cocked her lissome ear,
    And she eyed the moon so bright,
    And she nibbled o' the green;
    And I whispered 'Whsst! witch-hare,'
    Away like a ghostie o'er the field
    She fled, and left the moonlight there.

    BUNCHES OF GRAPES

    'Bunches of grapes,' says Timothy;
    'Pomegranates pink,' says Elaine;
    'A junket of cream and a cranberry tart
      For me,' says Jane.

    'Love-in-a-mist,' says Timothy;
    'Primroses pale,' says Elaine;
    'A nosegay of pinks and mignonette
      For me,' says Jane.

    'Chariots of gold,' says Timothy;
    'Silvery wings,' says Elaine;
    'A bumpity ride in a wagon of hay
      For me,' says Jane.

    JOHN MOULDY

    I spied John Mouldy in his cellar,
    Deep down twenty steps of stone;
    In the dusk he sat a-smiling,
      Smiling there alone.

    He read no book, he snuffed no candle;
    The rats ran in, the rats ran out;
    And far and near, the drip of water
      Went whisp'ring about.

    The dusk was still, with dew a-falling,
    I saw the Dog-star bleak and grim,
    I saw a slim brown rat of Norway
      Creep over him.

    I spied John Mouldy in his cellar,
    Deep down twenty steps of stone;
    In the dusk he sat a-smiling,
      Smiling there alone.

    THE FLY

    How large unto the tiny fly
      Must little things appear!--
    A rosebud like a feather bed,
      Its prickle like a spear;

    A dewdrop like a looking-glass,
      A hair like golden wire;
    The smallest grain of mustard-seed
      As fierce as coals of fire;

    A loaf of bread, a lofty hill;
      A wasp, a cruel leopard;
    And specks of salt as bright to see
      As lambkins to a shepherd.

    SONG

    O for a moon to light me home!
      O for a lanthorn green!
    For those sweet stars the Pleiades,
    That glitter in the twilight trees;
      O for a lovelorn taper! O
      For a lanthorn green!

    O for a frock of tartan!
      O for clear, wild, grey eyes!
    For fingers light as violets,
    'Neath branches that the blackbird frets;
      O for a thistly meadow! O
      For clear, wild grey eyes!

    O for a heart like almond boughs!
      O for sweet thoughts like rain!
    O for first-love like fields of grey,
    Shut April-buds at break of day!
      O for a sleep like music!
      For still dreams like rain!

    I SAW THREE WITCHES

    I saw three witches
    That bowed down like barley,
    And took to their brooms 'neath a louring sky,
    And, mounting a storm-cloud,
    Aloft on its margin,
    Stood black in the silver as up they did fly.

    I saw three witches
    That mocked the poor sparrows
    They carried in cages of wicker along,
    Till a hawk from his eyrie
    Swooped down like an arrow,
    And smote on the cages, and ended their song.

    I saw three witches
    That sailed in a shallop,
    All turning their heads with a truculent smile,
    Till a bank of green osiers
    Concealed their grim faces,
    Though I heard them lamenting for many a mile.

    I saw three witches
    Asleep in a valley,
    Their heads in a row, like stones in a flood,
    Till the moon, creeping upward,
    Looked white through the valley,
    And turned them to bushes in bright scarlet bud.

    THE SILVER PENNY

    'Sailorman, I'll give to you
      My bright silver penny,
    If out to sea you'll sail me
      And my dear sister Jenny.'

    'Get in, young sir, I'll sail ye
      And your dear sister Jenny,
    But pay she shall her golden locks
      Instead of your penny.'

    They sail away, they sail away,
      O fierce the winds blew!
    The foam flew in clouds,
      And dark the night grew!

    And all the wild sea-water
      Climbed steep into the boat;
    Back to the shore again
      Sail they will not.

    Drowned is the sailorman,
      Drowned is sweet Jenny,
    And drowned in the deep sea
      A bright silver penny.

    THE NIGHT-SWANS

    'Tis silence on the enchanted lake,
    And silence in the air serene,
    Save for the beating of her heart,
    The lovely-eyed Evangeline.

    She sings across the waters clear
    And dark with trees and stars between,
    The notes her fairy godmother
    Taught her, the child Evangeline.

    As might the unrippled pool reply,
    Faltering an answer far and sweet,
    Three swans as white as mountain snow
    Swim mantling to her feet.

    And still upon the lake they stay,
    Their eyes black stars in all their snow,
    And softly, in the glassy pool,
    Their feet beat darkly to and fro.

    She rides upon her little boat,
    Her swans swim through the starry sheen,
    Rowing her into Fairyland--
    The lovely-eyed Evangeline.

    'Tis silence on the enchanted lake,
    And silence in the air serene;
    Voices shall call in vain again
    On earth the child Evangeline.

    'Evangeline! Evangeline!'
    Upstairs, downstairs, all in vain.
    Her room is dim; her flowers faded;
    She answers not again.

    THE FAIRIES DANCING

    I heard along the early hills,
    Ere yet the lark was risen up,
    Ere yet the dawn with firelight fills
    The night-dew of the bramble-cup,--
    I heard the fairies in a ring
    Sing as they tripped a lilting round
    Soft as the moon on wavering wing.
    The starlight shook as if with sound,
    As if with echoing, and the stars
    Prankt their bright eyes with trembling gleams;
    While red with war the gusty Mars
    Rained upon earth his ruddy beams.
    He shone alone, adown the West,
    While I, behind a hawthorn-bush,
    Watched on the fairies flaxen-tressed
    The fires of the morning flush.
    Till, as a mist, their beauty died,
    Their singing shrill and fainter grew;
    And daylight tremulous and wide
    Flooded the moorland through and through;
    Till Urdon's copper weathercock
    Was reared in golden flame afar,
    And dim from moonlit dreams awoke
    The towers and groves of Arroar.

    REVERIE

    When slim Sophia mounts her horse
       And paces down the avenue,
    It seems an inward melody
         She paces to.

    Each narrow hoof is lifted high
      Beneath the dark enclust'ring pines,
    A silver ray within his bit
        And bridle shines.

    His eye burns deep, his tail is arched,
      And streams upon the shadowy air,
    The daylight sleeks his jetty flanks,
        His mistress' hair.

    Her habit flows in darkness down,
      Upon the stirrup rests her foot,
    Her brow is lifted, as if earth
        She heeded not.

    'Tis silent in the avenue,
      The sombre pines are mute of song,
    The blue is dark, there moves no breeze
        The boughs among.

    When slim Sophia mounts her horse
      And paces down the avenue,
    It seems an inward melody
        She paces to.

    THE THREE BEGGARS

    'Twas autumn daybreak gold and wild,
      While past St Ann's grey tower they shuffled,
    Three beggars spied a fairy-child
        In crimson mantle muffled.

    The daybreak lighted up her face
      All pink, and sharp, and emerald-eyed;
    She looked on them a little space,
        And shrill as hautboy cried:--

    'O three tall footsore men of rags
      Which walking this gold morn I see,
    What will ye give me from your bags
        For fairy kisses three?'

    The first, that was a reddish man,
      Out of his bundle takes a crust:
    'La, by the tombstones of St Ann,
        There's fee, if fee ye must!'

    The second, that was a chesnut man,
      Out of his bundle draws a bone:
    'La, by the belfry of St Ann,
        And all my breakfast gone!'

    The third, that was a yellow man,
      Out of his bundle picks a groat,
    'La, by the Angel of St Ann,
        And I must go without.'

    That changeling, lean and icy-lipped,
      Touched crust, and bone, and groat, and lo!
    Beneath her finger taper-tipped
        The magic all ran through.

    Instead of crust a peacock pie,
      Instead of bone sweet venison,
    Instead of groat a white lilie
        With seven blooms thereon.

    And each fair cup was deep with wine:
      Such was the changeling's charity,
    The sweet feast was enough for nine,
        But not too much for three.

    O toothsome meat in jelly froze!
      O tender haunch of elfin stag!
    O rich the odour that arose!
        O plump with scraps each bag!

    There, in the daybreak gold and wild,
      Each merry-hearted beggar man
    Drank deep unto the fairy child,
        And blessed the good St Ann.

    THE DWARF

    'Now, Jinnie, my dear, to the dwarf be off,
        That lives in Barberry Wood,
    And fetch me some honey, but be sure you don't laugh,--
      He hates little girls that are rude, are rude,
        He hates little girls that are rude.'

    Jane tapped at the door of the house in the wood,
        And the dwarf looked over the wall,
    He eyed her so queer, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep from laughing at all, at all,
        To keep from laughing at all.

    His shoes down the passage came clod, clod, clod,
        And when he opened the door,
    He croaked so harsh, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep from laughing the more, the more,
        To keep from laughing the more.

    As there, with his bushy red beard, he stood,
        Pricked out to double its size,
    He squinted so cross, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep the tears out of her eyes, her eyes,
        To keep the tears out of her eyes.

    He slammed the door, and went clod, clod, clod,
        But while in the porch she bides,
    He squealed so fierce, 'twas as much as she could
      To keep from cracking her sides, her sides,
        To keep from cracking her sides.

    He threw a pumpkin over the wall,
        And melons and apples beside,
    So thick in the air, that to see 'em all fall,
      She laughed, and laughed, till she cried, cried, cried,
        Jane laughed and laughed till she cried.

    Down fell her teardrops a pit-apat-pat,
        And red as a rose she grew;--
    'Kah! kah!' said the dwarf, 'is it crying you're at?
      It's the very worst thing you could do, do, do,
        It's the very worst thing you could do.'

    He slipped like a monkey up into a tree,
        He shook her down cherries like rain;
    'See now,' says he, cheeping, 'a blackbird I be,
      Laugh, laugh, little Jinnie, again-gain-gain,
        Laugh, laugh, little Jinnie, again.'

    Ah me! what a strange, what a gladsome duet
        From a house i' the deeps of a wood!
    Such shrill and such harsh voices never met yet
      A-laughing as loud as they could-could-could,
        A-laughing as loud as they could.

    Come Jinnie, come dwarf, cocksparrow, and bee,
        There's a ring gaudy-green in the dell,
    Sing, sing, ye sweet cherubs, that flit in the tree;
      La! who can draw tears from a well-well-well,
        Who ever drew tears from a well!

    ALULVAN

    The sun is clear of bird and cloud,
    The grass shines windless, grey, and still,
    In dusky ruin the owl dreams on,
    The cuckoo echoes on the hill;
      Yet soft along Alulvan's walks
        The ghost at noonday stalks.

    His eyes in shadow of his hat
    Stare on the ruins of his house;
    His cloak, up-fasten'd with a brooch,
    Of faded velvet grey as mouse,
      Brushes the roses as he goes:
        Yet wavers not one rose.

    The wild birds in a cloud fly up
    From their sweet feeding in the fruit;
    The droning of the bees and flies
    Rises gradual as a lute;
      Is it for fear the birds are flown,
        And shrills the insect-drone?

    Thick is the ivy o'er Alulvan,
    And crisp with summer-heat its turf;
    Far, far across its empty pastures
    Alulvan's sands are white with surf:
      And he himself is grey as sea,
        Watching beneath an elder-tree.

    All night the fretful, shrill Banshee
    Lurks in the chambers' dark festoons,
    Calling for ever, o'er garden and river,
    Through magpie changing of the moons:
      'Alulvan, O, alas! Alulvan,
        The doom of lone Alulvan!'

    THE PEDLAR

    There came a Pedlar to an evening house;
    Sweet Lettice, from her lattice looking down,
    Wondered what man he was, so curious
    His black hair dangled on his tattered gown:
    Then lifts he up his face, with glittering eyes,--
    'What will you buy, sweetheart?--Here's honeycomb,
    And mottled pippins, and sweet mulberry pies,
    Comfits and peaches, snowy cherry bloom,
    To keep in water for to make night sweet:
    All that you want, sweetheart,--come, taste and eat!'

    Ev'n with his sugared words, returned to her
    The clear remembrance of a gentle voice:--
    'And O! my child, should ever a flatterer
    Tap with his wares, and promise of all joys
    And vain sweet pleasures that on earth may be;
    Seal up your ears, sing some old happy song,
    Confuse his magic who is all mockery:
    His sweets are death.' Yet, still, how she doth long
    But just to taste, then shut the lattice tight,
    And hide her eyes from the delicious sight!

    'What must I pay?' she whispered. 'Pay!' says he,
    'Pedlar I am who through this wood do roam,
    One lock of hair is gold enough for me,
    For apple, peach, comfit, or honeycomb!'
    But from her bough a drowsy squirrel cried,
    'Trust him not, Lettice, trust, oh trust him not!'
    And many another woodland tongue beside
    Rose softly in the silence--'Trust him not!'
    Then cried the Pedlar in a bitter voice,
    'What, in the thicket, is this idle noise?'

    A late, harsh blackbird smote him with her wings,
    As through the glade, dark in the dim, she flew;
    Yet still the Pedlar his old burden sings,--
    'What, pretty sweetheart, shall I show to you?
    Here's orange ribands, here's a string of pearls,
    Here's silk of buttercup and pansy glove,
    A pin of tortoiseshell for windy curls,
    A box of silver, scented sweet with clove:
    Come now,' he says, with dim and lifted face,
    'I pass not often such a lonely place.'

    'Pluck not a hair!' a hidden rabbit cried,
    'With but one hair he'll steal thy heart away,
    Then only sorrow shall thy lattice hide:
    Go in! all honest pedlars come by day.'
    There was dead silence in the drowsy wood;
    'Here's syrup for to lull sweet maids to sleep;
    And bells for dreams, and fairy wine and food
    All day thy heart in happiness to keep';--
    And now she takes the scissors on her thumb,--
    'O, then, no more unto my lattice come!'

    O sad the sound of weeping in the wood!
    Now only night is where the Pedlar was;
    And bleak as frost upon a too-sweet bud
    His magic steals in darkness, O alas!
    Why all the summer doth sweet Lettice pine?
    And, ere the wheat is ripe, why lies her gold
    Hid 'neath fresh new-pluckt sprigs of eglantine?
    Why all the morning hath the cuckoo tolled,
    Sad to and fro in green and secret ways,
    With lonely bells the burden of his days?

    And, in the market-place, what man is this
    Who wears a loop of gold upon his breast,
    Stuck heartwise; and whose glassy flatteries
    Take all the townsfolk ere they go to rest
    Who come to buy and gossip? Doth his eye
    Remember a face lovely in a wood?
    O people! hasten, hasten, do not buy
    His woful wares; the bird of grief doth brood
    There where his heart should be; and far away
    Dew lies on grave-flowers this selfsame day!

    THE GREY WOLF

    'A fagot, a fagot, go fetch for the fire, son!'
      'O, Mother, the wolf looks in at the door!'
    'Cry Shoo! now, cry Shoo! thou fierce grey wolf fly, now;
      Haste thee away, he will fright thee no more.'

    'I ran, O, I ran, but the grey wolf ran faster,
      O, Mother, I cry in the air at thy door,
    Cry Shoo! now, cry Shoo! but his fangs were so cruel,
      Thy son (save his hatchet) thou'lt never see more.'

    THE OGRE

    'Tis moonlight on Trebarwith Vale,
      And moonlight on an Ogre keen,
    Who prowling hungry through the dale
      A lone cottage hath seen.

    Small with thin smoke ascending up
      Three casements and a door:--
    The Ogre eager is to sup,
      And here seems dainty store.

    Sweet as a larder to a mouse,
      So to him staring down,
    Seemed the sweet-windowed moonlit house,
      With jasmine overgrown.

    He snorted, as the billows snort
      In darkness of the night,
    Betwixt his lean locks tawny-swart,
      He glowered on the sight.

    Into the garden sweet with peas
      He put his wooden shoe,
    And bending back the apple trees
      Crept covetously through;

    Then, stooping, with an impious eye
      Stared through the lattice small,
    And spied two children which did lie
      Asleep, against the wall.

    Into their dreams no shadow fell,
      Of his disastrous thumb
    Groping discreet, and gradual,
      Across the quiet room.

    But scarce his nail had scraped the cot
      Wherein these children lay,
    As if his malice were forgot,
      It suddenly did stay.

    For faintly in the ingle-nook
      He heard a cradlesong,
    That rose into his thoughts and woke
      Terror them among.

    For she who in the kitchen sat
      Darning by the fire,
    Guileless of what he would be at,
      Sang sweet as wind or wire:--

    'Lullay, thou little tiny child,
      By-by, lullay, lullie;
    Jesu of glory, meek and mild,
      This night remember ye!

    'Fiend, witch, and goblin, foul and wild,
      He deems 'em smoke to be;
    Lullay, thou little tiny child,
      By-by, lullay, lullie!'

    The Ogre lifted up his eyes
      Into the moon's pale ray,
    And gazed upon her leopard-wise,
      Cruel and clear as day;

    He snarled in gluttony and fear:
      'The wind blows dismally,
    Jesu in storm my lambs be near,
      By-by, lullay, lullie!'

    And like a ravenous beast which sees
      The hunter's icy eye,
    So did this wretch in wrath confess
      Sweet Jesu's mastery.

    He lightly drew his greedy thumb
      From out that casement pale,
    And strode, enormous, swiftly home,
      Whinnying down the dale.

    DAME HICKORY

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's sticks for your fire,
    Furze-twigs, and oak-twigs,
    And beech-twigs, and briar!'
    But when old Dame Hickory came for to see,
    She found 'twas the voice of the false faerie.

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's meat for your broth,
    Goose-flesh, and hare's flesh,
    And pig's trotters both!'
    But when old Dame Hickory came for to see,
    She found 'twas the voice of the false faerie.

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's a wolf at your door,
    His teeth grinning white,
    And his tongue wagging sore!'
    'Nay!' said Dame Hickory, 'ye false faerie!'
    But a wolf 'twas indeed, and famished was he.

    'Dame Hickory, Dame Hickory,
    Here's buds for your tomb,
    Bramble, and lavender,
    And rosemary bloom!'
    'Hush!' said Dame Hickory, 'ye false faerie,
    Ye cry like a wolf, ye do, and trouble poor me.'

    THE PILGRIM

    'Shall we carry now your bundle,
        You old grey man?

    Over hill and over meadow,
    Lighter than an owlet's shadow,
    We will whirl it through the air,
    Through blue regions shrill and bare;

    Shall we carry now your bundle,
        You old grey man?'

    The Pilgrim lifted up his eyes
    And saw three fiends, in the skies,
    Stooping o'er that lonely place
        Evil in form and face.

    'O leave me, leave me, leave me,
        Ye three wild fiends!

    Far it is my feet must wander,
    And my city lieth yonder;
    I must bear my bundle alone,
    Help nor solace suffer none:

    O leave me, leave me, leave me,
        Ye three wild fiends!'

    The fiends stared down with greedy eye,
    Fanning the chill air duskily,
    'Twixt their hoods they stoop and cry:--

    'Shall we smooth the path before you,
        You old grey man?

    Sprinkle it green with gilded showers,
    Strew it o'er with painted flowers?
    Shall we blow sweet airs on it,
    Lure the magpie there to flit?

    Shall we smooth the path before you,
        You old grey man?'

    'O silence, silence, silence!
        Ye three wild fiends!

    Over bog, and fen, and boulder,
    I must bear it on my shoulder,
    Beaten of wind, torn of briar,
    Smitten of rain, parched of fire:

    O silence, silence, silence!
        Ye three wild fiends!'

    It seemed a smoke obscured the air,
    Bright lightning quivered in the gloom,
    And a faint voice of thunder spake
    Far in the lone hill-hollows--'Come!'
    Then half in fury, half in dread,
    The fiends drew closer down and said:--

    'Grey old man but sleep awhile;
        Sad old man!

    Thorn, and dust, and ice, and heat;
    Tarry now, sit down and eat;
    Heat, and ice, and dust, and thorn;
    Stricken, footsore, parched, forlorn,--
    Juice of purple grape shall be
    Youth and solace unto thee.

    With sweet wire and reed we'll haunt you;
    Songs of the valley shall enchant you;
    Rest now, lest this night you die:
    Sweet be now our lullaby:

    'Grey old man, come sleep awhile,
        Stubborn old man!'

    The pilgrim crouches terrified
    At stooping hood, and glassy face,
    Gloating, evil, side by side;
    Terror and hate brood o'er the place;
    He flings his withered hands on high
    With a bitter, breaking cry:--

    'Leave me, leave me, leave me, leave me,
        Ye three wild fiends:
    If I lay me down in slumber,
      Then I lay me down in wrath;
    If I stir not in sweet dreaming,
      Then I wither in my path;
    If I hear sweet voices singing,
        'Tis a demon's lullaby,
    And in "hideous storm and terror"
        Wake but to die!'

    And even while he spake, the sun
    From the sweet hills pierced the gloom,
    Kindling th' affrighted fiends upon.
    Wild flapped their wings, as if in doom,
    He heard a dismal hooting laughter:--

    Nought but a little rain fell after,
    And from the cloud whither they flew
    A storm-sweet lark rose in the blue:
    And his bundle seemed of flowers
        In his solitary hours.

    THE GAGE

    'Lady Jane, O Lady Jane!
    Your hound hath broken bounds again,
      And chased my timorous deer, O;
        If him I see,
        That hour he'll dee;
      My brakes shall be his bier, O.'

    'Lord Aerie, Lord Aerie,
    My hound, I trow, is fleet and free,
      He's welcome to your deer, O;
        Shoot, shoot you may,
        He'll gang his way,
      Your threats we nothing fear, O.'

    He's fetched him in, he's fetched him in,
    Gone all his swiftness, all his din,
      White fang, and glowering eye, O:
        'Here is your beast,
        And now at least
      My herds in peace shall lie, O.'

    "In peace!" my lord, O mark me well!
    For what my jolly hound befell
      You shall sup twenty-fold, O!
        For every tooth
        Of his, i'sooth,
      A stag in pawn I hold, O.

    'Huntsman and horn, huntsman and horn,
    Shall scare your heaths and coverts lorn,
      Braying 'em shrill and clear, O;
        But lone and still
        Shall lift each hill,
      Each valley wan and sere, O.

    'Ride up you may, ride down you may,
    Lonely or trooped, by night or day,
      My hound shall haunt you ever:
        Bird, beast, and game
        Shall dread the same,
      The wild fish of your river.'

    Her cheek is like the angry rose,
    Her eye with wrath and pity flows:
      He gazes fierce and round, O,--
        'Dear Lord!' he says,
        'What loveliness
      To waste upon a hound, O.

    'I'd give my stags, my hills and dales,
    My stormcocks and my nightingales
      To have undone this deed, O;
        For deep beneath
        My heart is death
      Which for her love doth bleed, O.'

    Wanders he up, wanders he down,
    On foot, a-horse, by night and noon:
      His lands are bleak and drear, O;
        Forsook his dales
        Of nightingales,
      Forsook his moors of deer, O.

    Forsook his heart, ah me! of mirth;
    There's nothing lightsome left on earth:
      Only one scene is fain, O,
        Where far remote
        The moonbeams gloat,
      And sleeps the lovely Jane, O.

    Until an eve when lone he went,
    Gnawing his beard in dreariment,
      Lo! from a thicket hidden,
        Lovely as flower
        In April hour,
      Steps forth a form unbidden.

    'Get ye now down, Lord Aerie,
    I'm troubled so I'm like to dee,'
      She cries, 'twixt joy and grief, O;
        'The hound is dead,
        When all is said,
      But love is past belief, O.

    'Nights, nights I've lain your lands to see,
    Forlorn and still--and all for me,
      All for a foolish curse, O;
        Now here am I
        Come out to die,
      To live unlov'd is worse, O!'

    In faith, this lord, in that lone dale,
    Hears now a sweeter nightingale,
      And lairs a tend'rer deer, O;
        His sorrow goes
        Like mountain snows
      In waters sweet and clear, O!

    Let the hound bay in Shadowland,
    Tuning his ear to understand
      What voice hath tamed this Aerie;
        Chafe, chafe he may
        The stag all day,
      And never thirst nor weary.

    Now here he smells, now there he smells,
    Winding his voice along the dells,
      Till grey flows up the morn, O;
        Then hies again
        To Lady Jane,
      No longer now forlorn, O.

    Ay, as it were a bud, did break
    To loveliness for Aerie's sake,
      So she in beauty moving
        Rides at his hand
        Across his land,
      Beloved as well as loving.

    AS LUCY WENT A-WALKING

    As Lucy went a-walking one wintry morning fine,
    There sate three crows upon a bough, and three times three is nine:
    Then 'O!' said Lucy, in the snow, 'it's very plain to see
    A witch has been a-walking in the fields in front of me.'

    Then stept she light and heedfully across the frozen snow,
    And plucked a bunch of elder-twigs that near a pool did grow:
    And, by and by, she comes to seven shadows in one place
    All stretched by seven poplar-trees against the sun's bright face.

    She looks to left, she looks to right, and in the midst she sees
    A little well of water clear and frozen 'neath the trees;
    Then down beside its margent in the crusty snow she kneels,
    And hears a magic belfry a-ringing with sweet bells.

    But when the belfry ceased to sound yet nothing could she see,
    Save only frozen water in the shadow of the tree.
    But presently she lifted up her eyes along the snow,
    And sees a witch in brindled shawl a-frisking to and fro.

    Her shoes were buckled scarlet that capered to and fro,
    And all her rusty locks were wreathed with twisted mistletoe;
    But never a dint, or mark, or print, in the whiteness for to see,
    Though danced she high, though danced she fast, though danced she
        lissomely.

    It seemed 'twas diamonds in the air, or little flakes of frost;
    It seemed 'twas golden smoke around, or sunbeams lightly tost;
    It seemed an elfin music like to reeds and warblers rose:
    'Nay!' Lucy said, 'it is the wind that through the branches flows.'

    And as she peeps, and as she peeps, 'tis no more one, but three,
    And eye of bat, and downy wing of owl within the tree,
    And the bells of that sweet belfry a-pealing as before,
    And now it is not three she sees, and now it is not four.

    'O! who are ye,' sweet Lucy cries, 'that in a dreadful ring,
    All muffled up in brindled shawls, do caper, frisk, and spring?'
    'A witch and witches, one and nine,' they straight to her reply,
    And looked upon her narrowly, with green and needle eye.

    Then Lucy sees in clouds of gold sweet cherry-trees upgrow,
    And bushes of red roses that bloomed above the snow;
    She smells all faint the almond-boughs that blow so wild and fair,
    And doves with milky eyes ascend fluttering in the air.

    Clear flow'rs she sees, like tulip buds, go floating by like birds,
    With wavering tips that warbled sweetly strange enchanted words;
    And as with ropes of amethyst the boughs with lamps were hung,
    And clusters of green emeralds like fruit upon them clung.

    'O witches nine, ye dreadful nine, O witches seven and three!
    Whence come these wondrous things that I this Christmas morning see?'
    But straight, as in a clap, when she of Christmas says the word,
    Here is the snow, and there the sun, but never bloom nor bird;

    Nor warbling flame, nor gloaming-rope of amethyst there shows,
    Nor bunches of green emeralds, nor belfry, well, and rose,
    Nor cloud of gold, nor cherry-tree, nor witch in brindled shawl,
    But like a dream which vanishes, so vanished were they all.

    When Lucy sees, and only sees, three crows upon a bough,
    And earthly twigs, and bushes hidden white in driven snow,
    Then 'O!' said Lucy, 'three times three is nine--I plainly see
    Some witch has been a-walking in the fields in front of me.'

    THE ENGLISHMAN

    I met a sailor in the woods,
      A silver ring wore he,
    His hair hung black, his eyes shone blue,
      And thus he said to me:--

    'What country, say, of this round earth,
      What shore of what salt sea,
    Be this, my son, I wander in,
      And looks so strange to me?'

    Says I, 'O foreign sailorman,
      In England now you be,
    This is her wood, and this her sky,
      And that her roaring sea.'

    He lifts his voice yet louder,
      'What smell be this,' says he,
    'My nose on the sharp morning air
      Snuffs up so greedily?'

    Says I, 'It is wild roses
      Do smell so winsomely,
    And winy briar too,' says I,
      'That in these thickets be.'

    'And oh!' says he, 'what leetle bird
      Is singing in yon high tree,
    So every shrill and long-drawn note
      Like bubbles breaks in me?'

    Says I, 'It is the mavis
      That perches in the tree,
    And sings so shrill, and sings so sweet,
      When dawn comes up the sea.'

    At which he fell a-musing,
      And fixed his eye on me,
    As one alone 'twixt light and dark
      A spirit thinks to see

    'England!' he whispers soft and harsh,
      'England!' repeated he,
    'And briar, and rose, and mavis,
      A-singing in yon high tree.

    'Ye speak me true, my leetle son,
      So--so, it came to me,
    A-drifting landwards on a spar,
      And grey dawn on the sea.

    'Ay, ay, I could not be mistook;
      I knew them leafy trees,
    I knew that land so witcherie sweet,
      And that old noise of seas.

    'Though here I've sailed a score of years,
      And heard 'em, dream or wake,
    Lap small and hollow 'gainst my cheek,
      On sand and coral break;

    '"Yet now, my leetle son," says I,
      A-drifting on the wave,
    "That land I see so safe and green
      Is England, I believe.

    '"And that there wood is English wood,
      And this here cruel sea,
    The selfsame old blue ocean
      Years gone remembers me,

    "A-sitting with my bread and butter
      Down ahind yon chitterin' mill;
    And this same Marinere"--(that's me),
      "Is that same leetle Will!--

    "That very same wee leetle Will
      Eating his bread and butter there,
    A-looking on the broad blue sea
      Betwixt his yaller hair!"

    'And here be I, my son, throwed up
      Like corpses from the sea,
    Ships, stars, winds, tempests, pirates past,
      Yet leetle Will I be!'

    He said no more, that sailorman,
      But in a reverie
    Stared like the figure of a ship
      With painted eyes to sea.

    THE PHANTOM

    'Upstairs in the large closet, child,
      This side the blue-room door,
    Is an old Bible, bound in leather,
      Standing upon the floor;

    'Go with this taper, bring it me;
      Carry it on your arm;
    It is the book on many a sea
      Hath stilled the waves' alarm.'

    Late the hour, dark the night,
      The house is solitary,
    Feeble is a taper's light
      To light poor Ann to see.

    Her eyes are yet with visions bright
      Of sylph and river, flower and fay,
    Now through a narrow corridor
      She takes her lonely way.

    Vast shadows on the heedless walls
      Gigantic loom, stoop low:
    Each little hasty footfall calls
      Hollowly to and fro.

    In the dim solitude her heart
      Remembers tearlessly
    White winters when her mother was
      Her loving company.

    Now in the dark clear glass she sees
      A taper mocking hers,--
    A phantom face of light blue eyes,
      Reflecting phantom fears.

    Around her loom the vacant rooms,
      Wind the upward stairs,
    She climbs on into a loneliness
      Only her taper shares.

    Her grandmother is deaf with age;
      A garden of moonless trees
    Would answer not though she should cry
      In anguish on her knees.

    So that she scarcely heeds--so fast
      Her pent-up heart doth beat--
    When, faint along the corridor,
      Falleth the sound of feet:--

    Sounds lighter than silk slippers make
      Upon a ballroom floor, when sweet
    Violin and 'cello wake
      Music for twirling feet.

    O! in an old unfriendly house,
      What shapes may not conceal
    Their faces in the open day,
      At night abroad to steal?

    Even her taper seems with fear
      To languish small and blue;
    Far in the woods the winter wind
      Runs whistling through.

    A dreadful cold plucks at each hair,
      Her mouth is stretched to cry,
    But sudden, with a gush of joy,
      It narrows to a sigh.

    It is a wilding child which comes
      Swift through the corridor,
    Singing an old forgotten song,
      This ancient burden bore:--

    'Thorn, thorn, I wis,
    And roses twain,
      A red rose and a white,
    Stoop in the blossom, bee, and kiss
      A lonely child good-night.

    'Swim fish, sing bird,
    And sigh again,
      I that am lost am lone,
    Bee in the blossom never stirred
      Locks hid beneath a stone!'--

    Her eye was of the azure fire
      That hovers in wintry flame;
    Her raiment wild and yellow as furze
      That spouteth out the same;

    And in her hand she bore no flower,
      But on her head a wreath
    Of faded flag-flowers that did yet
      Smell sweetly after death.

    Clear was the light of loveliness
      That lit her face like rain;
    And sad the mouth that uttered
      Her immemorial strain.

        *     *     *     *

    Gloomy with night the corridor
      Is now that she is gone,
    Albeit this solitary child
      No longer seems alone.

    Fast though her taper dwindles down,
      Heavy and thick the tome,
    A beauty beyond fear to dim
      Haunts now her alien home.

    Ghosts in the world malignant, grim,
      Vex many a wood, and glen,
    And house, and pool,--the unquiet ghosts
      Of dead and restless men.

    But in her grannie's house this spirit--
      A child as lone as she--
    Pining for love not found on earth,
      Ann dreams again to see.

    Seated upon her tapestry-stool,
      Her fairy-book laid by,
    She gazes in the fire, knowing
      She hath sweet company.

    THE MILLER AND HIS SON

    A twangling harp for Mary,
      A silvery flute for John,
    And now we'll play the livelong day,
      'The Miller and his Son.'

    'The Miller went a-walking
      All in the forest high,
    He sees three doves a-flitting
      Against the dark blue sky:

    'Says he, "My son, now follow
      These doves so white and free,
    That cry above the forest,
      And surely cry to thee."

    "I go, my dearest Father,
      But O! I sadly fear,
    These doves so white will lead me far,
      But never bring me near."

    'He kisses the Miller,
      He cries, "Awhoop to ye!"
    And straightway through the forest
      Follows the wood-doves three.

    'There came a sound of weeping
      To the Miller in his Mill;
    Red roses in a thicket
      Bloomed over near his wheel;

    'Three stars shone wild and brightly
      Above the forest dim:
    But never his dearest son
      Returns again to him.

    'The cuckoo shall call "Cuckoo!"
      In vain along the vale,
    The linnet, and the blackbird,
      The mournful nightingale;

    'The Miller hears and sees not,
      A-thinking of his son;
    His toppling wheel is silent;
      His grinding done.

    '"Ye doves so white," he weepeth,
      "Ye roses on the tree,
    Ye stars that shine so brightly,
      Ye shine in vain for me!"

    'I bade him follow, follow,
      He said, "O Father dear,
    These doves so white will lead me far
      But never bring me near!"'

    A twangling harp for Mary,
      A silvery flute for John,
    And now we'll play the livelong day,
      'The Miller and his Son.'

    DOWN-ADOWN-DERRY

    Down-adown-derry,
    Sweet Annie Maroon,
    Gathering daisies
    In the meadows of Doone,
    Sees a white fairy
    Skip buxom and free
    Where the waters go brawling
    In rills to the sea;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    Sweet Annie Maroon
    Through the green grasses
    Runs fleetly and soon,
    And lo! on a lily
    She sees one recline
    Whose eyes in her wee face
    Like the water-sparks shine;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    And shrill was her tune:--
    'Come to my water-house,
    Annie Maroon,
    Come in your pink gown,
    Your curls on your head,
    To wear the white samite
    And rubies instead';
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    'Down-adown-derry,
    Lean fish of the sea,
    Bring lanthorns for feasting
    The gay Faerie;
    And it's dancing on sand 'tis
    That's smoother than wool;--
    Foam-fruit and wild honey
    To pleasure you full';
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    Sweet Annie Maroon
    Looked large on the fairy
    Curled wan as the moon;
    And all the grey ripples
    To the Mill racing by,
    With harps and with timbrels
    Did ringing reply;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    'Down-adown-derry,'
    Sang the Fairy of Doone,
    Piercing the heart of
    Sweet Annie Maroon;
    And lo! when like roses
    The clouds of the sun
    Faded at dusk, gone
    Was Annie Maroon;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    The daisies are few;
    Frost twinkles powd'ry
    In haunts of the dew;
    Only the robin
    Perched on a white thorn,
    Can comfort the heart of
    A father forlorn;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    Down-adown-derry,
    There's snow in the air;
    Ice where the lily
    Bloomed waxen and fair;
    He may call o'er the water,
    Cry--cry through the Mill,
    But Annie Maroon, alas!
    Answer ne'er will;
        Singing down-adown-derry.

    THE SUPPER

    A wolf he pricks with eyes of fire
    Across the night's o'ercrusted snows,
        Seeking his prey,
        He pads his way
    Where Jane benighted goes,
      Where Jane benighted goes.

    He curdles the bleak air with ire,
    Ruffling his hoary raiment through,
        And lo! he sees
        Beneath the trees
    Where Jane's light footsteps go,
      Where Jane's light footsteps go.

    No hound peals thus in wicked joy,
    He snaps his muzzle in the snows,
        His five-clawed feet
        Do scamper fleet
    Where Jane's bright lanthorn shows,
      Where Jane's bright lanthorn shows.

    Now his greed's green doth gaze unseen
    On a pure face of wilding rose,
        Her amber eyes
        In fear's surprise
    Watch largely as she goes,
      Watch largely as she goes.

    Salt wells his hunger in his jaws,
    His lust it revels to and fro,
        Yet small beneath
        A soft voice saith,
    'Jane shall in safety go,
      Jane shall in safety go.'

    He lurched as if a fiery lash
    Had scourged his hide, and through and through,
        His furious eyes
        O'erscanned the skies,
    But nearer dared not go,
      But nearer dared not go.

    He reared like wild Bucephalus,
    His fangs like spears in him uprose,
        Ev'n to the town
        Jane's flitting gown
    He grins on as she goes,
      He grins on as she goes.

    In fierce lament he howls amain,
    He scampers, marvelling in his throes
        What brought him there
        To sup on air,
    While Jane unarmed goes,
      While Jane unarmed goes.

    THE ISLE OF LONE

    Three dwarfs there were which lived on an isle,
      And the name of the isle was Lone,
    And the names of the dwarfs were Alliolyle,
      Lallerie, Muziomone.

    Alliolyle was green of een,
      Lallerie light of locks,
    Muziomone was mild of mien,
      As ewes in April flocks.

    Their house was small and sweet of the sea,
      And pale as the Malmsey wine;
    Their bowls were three, and their beds were three,
      And their nightcaps white were nine.

    Their beds were of the holly-wood,
      Their combs of the tortoiseshell,
    Their mirrors clear as wintry flood,
      Frozen dark and snell.

    So each would lie on his plumpy pillow,
      The moon for company,
    And hear the parrot scream to the billow,
      And the billow roar reply.--

    Sulphur parrots, and parrots red,
      Scarlet, and flame, and green;
    And five-foot apes that jargoned
      In feathery-tufted treen.

    And oh, or ever the dawning shed
      On dreams a narrow flame,
    Three gaping dwarfs gat out of bed
      And gazed upon the same.

    At dawn they fished, at noon they snared
      Young foxes in the dells,
    At even on dew-berries they fared,
      And blew in their twisted shells.

    Dark was the sea they gambolled in,
      And thick with silver fish,
    Dark as green glass blown clear and thin
      To be a monarch's dish.

    They sate to sup in a jasmine bower,
      Lit pale with flies of fire,
    Their bowls the hue of the iris-flower,
      And lemon their attire.

    Sweet wine in little cups they sipped,
      And golden honeycomb
    Into their bowls of cream they dipped,
      Whipt light and white as foam.

    Alliolyle, where the salt sea flows,
      Taught three old apes to sing,
    And there to the moon, like a full-blown rose,
      They capered in a ring.

    But down to the shore skipped Lallerie,
      His parrot on his thumb,
    And the twain they scritched in mockery,
      While the dancers go and come.

    So, alas! in the evening, rosy and still,
      Light-haired Lallerie
    Bitterly quarrelled with Alliolyle
      By the yellow-sanded sea.

    The rising moon swam sweet and large
      Before their furious eyes,
    And they rolled and rolled to the coral marge
      Where the surf for ever cries.

    Too late, too late, comes Muziomone:
      Clear in the clear green sea
    Alliolyle lies not alone,
      But clasped with Lallerie.

    He blows on his shell plaintive notes;
      Ape, parraquito, bee
    Flock where a shoe on the salt wave floats,--
      The shoe of Lallerie.

    He fetches nightcaps, one and nine,
      Grey apes he dowers three,
    His house as fair as the Malmsey wine
      Seems sad as cypress-tree.

    Three bowls he brims with honeycomb
      To feast the bumble bees,
    Saying, 'O bees, be this your home,
      For grief is on the seas!'

    He sate him lone in a coral grot,
      At the flowing of the tide;
    When ebbed the billow, there was not,
      Save coral, aught beside.

    So hairy apes in three white beds,
      And nightcaps, one and nine,
    On moonlit pillows lay three heads
      Bemused with dwarfish wine.

    A tomb of coral, the dirge of bee,
      The grey apes' guttural groan
    For Alliolyle, for Lallerie,
      For thee, O Muziomone!

    THE SLEEPING BEAUTY

    The scent of bramble sweets the air,
      Amid her folded sheets she lies,
    The gold of evening in her hair,
      The blue of morn shut in her eyes.

    How many a changing moon hath lit
      The unchanging roses of her face!
    Her mirror ever broods on it
      In silver stillness of the days.

    Oft flits the moth on filmy wings
      Into his solitary lair;
    Shrill evensong the cricket sings
      From some still shadow in her hair.

    In heat, in snow, in wind, in flood,
      She sleeps in lovely loneliness,
    Half folded like an April bud
      On winter-haunted trees.

    THE HORN

    Hark! is that a horn I hear,
      In cloudland winding sweet--
    And bell-like clash of bridle-rein,
      And silver-shod light feet?

    Is it the elfin laughter of
      Fairies riding faint and high,
    'Neath the branches of the moon,
      Straying through the starry sky?

    Is it in the globed dew
      Such sweet melodies may fall?
    Wood and valley--all are still,
      Hushed the shepherd's call.

    Hark! is that a horn I hear
      In cloudland winding sweet?
    Or gloomy goblins marching out
      Their captain Puck to greet?

    CAPTAIN LEAN

    Out of the East a hurricane
      Swept down on Captain Lean--
    That mariner and gentleman
      Will ne'er again be seen.

    He sailed his ship against the foes
      Of his own country dear,
    But now in the trough of the billows
      An aimless course doth steer.

    Powder was violets to his nostril,
      Sweet the din of the fighting-line,
    Now he is flotsam on the seas,
      And his bones are bleached with brine.

    The stars move up along the sky,
      The moon she shines so bright,
    And in that solitude the foam
      Sparkles unearthly white.

    This is the tomb of Captain Lean,
      Would a straiter please his soul?
    I trow he sleeps in peace,
      Howsoever the billows roll!

    THE PORTRAIT OF A WARRIOR

    His brow is seamed with line and scar;
      His cheek is red and dark as wine;
    The fires as of a Northern star
      Beneath his cap of sable shine.

    His right hand, bared of leathern glove,
      Hangs open like an iron gin,
    You stoop to see his pulses move,
      To hear the blood sweep out and in.

    He looks some king, so solitary
      In earnest thought he seems to stand,
    As if across a lonely sea
      He gazed impatient of the land.

    Out of the noisy centuries
      The foolish and the fearful fade;
    Yet burn unquenched these warrior eyes,
      Time hath not dimmed nor death dismayed.

    HAUNTED

    From out the wood I watched them shine,--
      The windows of the haunted house,
    Now ruddy as enchanted wine,
      Now dim as flittermouse.

    There went a thin voice piping airs
      Along the grey and crooked walks,--
    A garden of thistledown and tares,
      Bright leaves, and giant stalks.

    The twilight rain shone at its gates,
      Where long-leaved grass in shadow grew;
    And black in silence to her mates
      A voiceless raven flew.

    Lichen and moss the lone stones greened,
      Green paths led lightly to its door,
    Keen from her lair the spider leaned,
      And dusk to darkness wore.

    Amidst the sedge a whisper ran,
      The West shut down a heavy eye,
    And like last tapers, few and wan,
      The watch-stars kindled in the sky.

    THE RAVEN'S TOMB

    'Build me my tomb,' the Raven said,
    'Within the dark yew-tree,
    So in the Autumn yewberries
    Sad lamps may burn for me.
    Summon the haunted beetle,
    From twilight bud and bloom,
    To drone a gloomy dirge for me
    At dusk above my tomb.
    Beseech ye too the glowworm
    To bear her cloudy flame,
    Where the small, flickering bats resort,
    Whistling in tears my name.
    Let the round dew a whisper make,
    Welling on twig and thorn;
    And only the grey cock at night
    Call through his silver horn.
    And you, dear sisters, don your black
    For ever and a day,
    To show how sweet a raven
    In his tomb is laid away.'

    THE CHRISTENING

    The bells chime clear,
    Soon will the sun behind the hills sink down;
    Come, little Ann, your baby brother dear
    Lies in his christening-gown.

    His godparents
    Are all across the fields stepped on before,
    And wait beneath the crumbling monuments,
    This side the old church door.

    Your mammie dear
    Leans frail and lovely on your daddie's arm;
    Watching her chick, 'twixt happiness and fear,
    Lest he should come to harm.

    All to be blest
    Full soon in the clear heavenly water, he
    Sleeps on unwitting of't, his little breast
    Heaving so tenderly.

    I carried you,
    My little Ann, long since on this same quest,
    And from the painted windows a pale hue
    Lit golden on your breast;

    And then you woke,
    Chill as the holy water trickled down,
    And, weeping, cast the window a strange look,
    Half smile, half infant frown.

    I scarce could hear
    The larks a-singing in the green meadows,
    'Twas summertide, and budding far and near
    The hedges thick with rose.

    And now you're grown
    A little girl, and this same helpless mite
    Is come like such another bud half-blown,
    Out of the wintry night.

    Time flies, time flies!
    And yet, bless me! 'tis little changed am I;
    May Jesu keep from tears those infant eyes,
    Be love their lullaby!

    THE MOTHER BIRD

    Through the green twilight of a hedge
    I peered, with cheek on the cool leaves pressed,
    And spied a bird upon a nest:
    Two eyes she had beseeching me
    Meekly and brave, and her brown breast
    Throbb'd hot and quick above her heart;
    And then she oped her dagger bill,--
    'Twas not a chirp, as sparrows pipe
    At break of day; 'twas not a trill,
    As falters through the quiet even;
    But one sharp solitary note,
    One desperate, fierce, and vivid cry
    Of valiant tears, and hopeless joy,
    One passionate note of victory:
    Off, like a fool afraid, I sneaked,
    Smiling the smile the fool smiles best,
    At the mother bird in the secret hedge
    Patient upon her lonely nest.

    THE CHILD IN THE STORY GOES TO BED

    I prythee, Nurse, come smooth my hair,
      And prythee, Nurse, unloose my shoe,
    And trimly turn my silken sheet
      Upon my quilt of gentle blue.

    My pillow sweet of lavender
      Smooth with an amiable hand,
    And may the dark pass peacefully by
      As in the hour-glass droops the sand.

    Prepare my cornered manchet sweet,
      And in my little crystal cup
    Pour out the blithe and flowering mead
      That forthwith I may sup.

    Withdraw my curtains from the night,
      And let the crisped crescent shine
    Upon my eyelids while I sleep,
      And soothe me with her beams benign.

    From far-away there streams the singing
      Of the mellifluent nightingale,--
    Surely if goblins hear her lay,
      They shall not o'er my peace prevail.

    Now quench my silver lamp, prythee,
      And bid the harpers harp that tune
    Fairies which haunt the meadowlands
      Sing clearly to the stars of June.

    And bid them play, though I in dreams
      No longer heed their pining strains,
    For I would not to silence wake
      When slumber o'er my senses wanes.

    You Angels bright who me defend,
      Enshadow me with curved wing,
    And keep me in the darksome night
      Till dawn another day do bring.

    THE CHILD IN THE STORY AWAKES

    The light of dawn rose on my dreams,
      And from afar I seemed to hear
    In sleep the mellow blackbird call
      Hollow and sweet and clear.

    I prythee, Nurse, my casement open,
      Wildly the garden peals with singing,
    And hooting through the dewy pines
      The goblins all are winging.

    O listen the droning of the bees,
      That in the roses take delight!
    And see a cloud stays in the blue
      Like an angel still and bright.

    The gentle sky is spread like silk,
      And, Nurse, the moon doth languish there,
    As if it were a perfect jewel
      In the morning's soft-spun hair.

    The greyness of the distant hills
      Is silvered in the lucid East,
    See, now the sheeny-plumed cock
      Wags haughtily his crest.

    'O come you out, O come you out,
      Lily, and lavender, and lime;
    The kingcup swings his golden bell,
      And plumpy cherries drum the time.

    'O come you out, O come you out!
      Roses, and dew, and mignonette,
    The sun is in the steep blue sky,
      Sweetly the morning star is set.'

    THE LAMPLIGHTER

    When the light of day declineth,
    And a swift angel through the sky
    Kindleth God's tapers clear,
    With ashen staff the lamplighter
    Passeth along the darkling streets
    To light our earthly lamps;

    Lest, prowling in the darkness,
    The thief should haunt with quiet tread,
    Or men on evil errands set;
    Or wayfarers be benighted;
    Or neighbours bent from house to house
    Should need a guiding torch.

    He is like a needlewoman
    Who deftly on a sable hem
    Stitches in gleaming jewels;
    Or, haply, he is like a hero,
    Whose bright deeds on the long journey
    Are beacons on our way.

    And when in the East cometh morning,
    And the broad splendour of the sun,
    Then, with the tune of little birds
    Ringing on high, the lamplighter
    Passeth by each quiet house,
    And putteth out the lamps.

    CECIL

    Ye little elves, who haunt sweet dells,
    Where flowers with the dew commune,
    I pray you hush the child, Cecil,
        With windlike song.

    O little elves, so white she lieth,
    Each eyelid gentler than the flow'r
    Of the bramble, and her fleecy hair
        Like smoke of gold.

    O little elves, her hands and feet
    The angels muse upon, and God
    Hath shut a glimpse of Paradise
        In each blue eye.

    O little elves, her tiny body
    Like a white flake of snow it is,
    Drooping upon the pale green hood
        Of the chill snowdrop.

    O little elves, with elderflower,
    And pimpernel, and the white hawthorn,
    Sprinkle the journey of her dreams:
        And, little elves,

    Call to her magically sweet,
    Lest of her very tenderness
    She do forsake this rough brown earth
        And return to us no more.

    I MET AT EVE

    I met at eve the Prince of Sleep,
    His was a still and lovely face,
    He wandered through a valley steep
      Lovely in a lonely place.

    His garb was grey of lavender,
    About his brows a poppy-wreath
    Burned like dim coals, and everywhere
      The air was sweeter for his breath.

    His twilight feet no sandals wore,
    His eyes shone faint in their own flame,
    Fair moths that gloomed his steps before
      Seemed letters of his lovely name.

    His house is in the mountain ways,
    A phantom house of misty walls,
    Whose golden flocks at evening graze,
      And witch the moon with muffled calls.

    Upwelling from his shadowy springs
    Sweet waters shake a trembling sound,
    There flit the hoot-owl's silent wings,
      There hath his web the silkworm wound.

    Dark in his pools clear visions lurk,
    And rosy, as with morning buds,
    Along his dales of broom and birk
      Dreams haunt his solitary woods.

    I met at eve the Prince of Sleep,
    His was a still and lovely face,
    He wandered through a valley steep,
      Lovely in a lonely place.

    LULLABY

    Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!
    The singing mouse sings plaintively,
    The sweet night-bird in the chesnut-tree--
    They sing together, bird and mouse,
    In starlight, in darkness, lonely, sweet,
    The wild notes and the faint notes meet--
      Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!

    Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!
    Amid the lilies floats the moth,
    The mole along his galleries goeth
    In the dark earth; the summer moon
    Looks like a shepherd through the pane
    Seeking his feeble lamb again--
      Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!

    Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!
    Time comes to keep night-watch with thee
    Nodding with roses; and the sea
    Saith 'Peace! Peace!' amid his foam
    White as thy night-clothes; 'O be still!'
    The wind cries up the whisp'ring hill--
      Sleep, sleep, lovely white soul!

    ENVOY

    There clung three roses to a stem,
    Did all their hues of summer don,
    But came a wind and troubled them,
      And all were gone.

    I heard three bells in unison
    Clap out some transient heart's delight,
    Time and the hour brought silence on
      And the dark night.

    Doth not Orion even set!
    O love, love, prove true alone,
    Till youthful hearts ev'n love forget,
      Then, child, begone!

Printed by T. and A. CONSTABLE,
(late) Printers to Her Majesty at the Edinburgh University Pressfile was produced from images generously made available
by The University of Florida, The Internet
Archive/Children's Library)

AESOP,

IN RHYME;

OR,

OLD FRIENDS IN A NEW DRESS.

BY MARMADUKE PARK.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHILADELPHIA:
C. G. HENDERSON, & CO.,
N. W. CORNER ARCH AND FIFTH STREETS.
1852.

       *       *       *       *       *

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1852,

BY C. G. HENDERSON & CO.,

in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States,
in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DOG AND THE WOLF.

A wolf there was, whose scanty fare
Had made his person lean and spare;
A dog there was, so amply fed,
His sides were plump and sleek; 'tis said
The wolf once met this prosp'rous cur,
And thus began: "Your servant, sir;
I'm pleased to see you look so well,
Though how it is I cannot tell;
I have not broke my fast to-day;
Nor have I, I'm concern'd to say,
One bone in store or expectation,
And that I call a great vexation."

"Indeed it is," the dog replied:
"I know no ill so great beside;
But if you do not like to be
So poorly fed, come live with me."
"Agreed," rejoined the wolf, "I'll go:
But pray, what work am I to do?"
"Oh, guard the house, and do not fail
To bark at thieves, and wag your tail."

So off they jogg'd, and soon arrived
At where the friendly mastiff lived.
"Well," said the wolf, "I can't deny
You have a better house than I."
"Not so," the other then replied,
"If you with me will hence abide."
"Oh," said the wolf, "how kind you are!
But what d'ye call _that_, hanging there?
Is it an iron chain, or what?"
"Friend," said the dog, "I quite forgot
To mention that; sometimes, you see,
They hook that little chain to _me_;
But it is only meant to keep
Us dogs from walking in our sleep,
And should you wear it, you would find,
It's nothing that you need to mind."

"I'll take your word," the wolf replied.
"It's truth by me shall ne'er be tried;
I'll have my liberty again,
And you your collar and your chain."

MORAL.

Our neighbors sometimes seem to be
A vast deal better off than we;
Yet seldom 'tis they really are,
Since _they_ have troubles too to bear,
Which, if the truth were really known,
Are quite as grievous as our own.

THE HERDSMAN.

A herdsman, who lived at a time and a place
Which, should you not know, is but little disgrace,
Discover'd one morning, on counting his stock,
That a sheep had been stolen that night from the flock.

"Oh, I wish I had caught ye, _whoever ye be_
I'd have soon let you know, I'd have soon let ye see,
What he had to expect," said the herdsman, "I trow;
But I've thought of a scheme that will trouble you now."

So what did he do, sir, but put up a board,
Describing the thief, and proposed a reward
Of a lamb, to the man who would give information
Concerning the thief, and his true designation.

The project succeeded; for soon there applied
A certain near neighbor, with others beside.
"But tell me the thief," said the herdsman, "at least;"
"Come hither," said they, "and we'll show you the beast!"

"The _beast_!" said the rustic, who thought he should die on
The spot, when he found that the thief was a lion!
"Ill luck to my hurry, what now shall I do?
I promised a lamb to detect you 'tis true;
But now I'd consent _all_ my substance to pay,
If I could but with safety get out of your way."

MORAL.

Silly people ask things that would ruin, if sent;
They demand them in haste, and at leisure repent.

THE BOYS AND THE FROGS.

Some boys, beside a pond or lake,
Were playing once at _duck and drake?_
When, doubtless to their heart's content,
Volleys of stones were quickly sent.

But there were some (there will be such)
Who did not seem amused so much;
These were the frogs, to whom the game,
In point of sport was not the same.

For scarce a stone arrived, 'tis said,
But gave some frog a broken head;
And scores in less than half an hour,
Perished beneath the dreadful shower.

At last, said one, "You silly folks, I say,
Do fling your stones another way;
Though _sport_ to _you_, to throw them thus,
Remember, pray, 'tis _death_ to us!"

MORAL.

From hence this moral may be learn'd:
Let play _be play_ to _all concern'd_.

THE COCK AND THE JEWEL.

A cock there was: a sage was he
  (If Esop we may trust,)
Who wish'd to make a meal, you see,
  As other sages must.

With this intent, as heretofore,
  When on the hunt for grain;
Our hero scratch'd the litter o'er
  With all his might and main.

But scarce a minute had he scratch'd,
  When, to his great surprise,
A gem, with golden chain attach'd,
  He saw with both his eyes.

"Alack!" quoth he, "what have we here?
  A diamond, I protest!
Which lords and ladies buy so dear,
  And hold in such request.

"But one good barley-corn to me
  Has more intrinsic worth
Than all the pearls now in the sea,
  Or gold now in the earth."

MORAL.

The moral here, in Esop's mind,
  Was this, there's not a doubt:
Things have _most_ value, which we find
  We _cannot_ do without.

THE MAN AND THE LION.

A man and a lion once had a dispute,
Which was reckon'd the greatest, the man or the brute;
The lion discoursed on his side at some length,
And greatly enlarged on his courage and strength.

The man, one would think, had enough to reply
On _his_ side the question, which none could deny;
But like many others who make a pretence,
He talk'd perfect nonsense, and thought it good sense.

"So," says he, "don't be prating,--look yonder, I pray,
At that sculpture of marble, now what will you say?
The lion is vanquished; but as for the man
He is striding upon him; deny it who can."

"But pray," said the lion, "who sculptured that stone?"
"One of _us_," said the man, "I must candidly own."
"But when _we_ are sculptors," the other replied,
"You will then on the man see the _lion_ astride."

MORAL.

The man might have added, if he had been wise,
"But a beast _cannot_ sculpture a stone, _if he tries_."
_That_ sufficiently shows where the difference lies.

THE FOX AND THE CRANE.

"I certainly think," said a fox to a crane,
"That face, ma'am of yours is remarkably plain;
That beak that you wear is so frightful a feature,
It makes you appear a most singular creature."
The crane, much offended at what she had heard,
March'd off at full speed, without saying a word:
"Oh dear!" said the fox, "Mrs. Crane, I protest
You misunderstand me, 'twas only a jest."
"Come, don't be affronted--stay with me and dine;
You know very well 'tis this temper of mine
To say such odd things to my intimate friends;
But you know that poor Reynard no mischief intends."
So the crane thought it best not to break with him quite,
But to view his remarks in a good-natured light.
So she put on as pleasant a face as she could
When he ask'd her to dine, and replied that she would.
But alas! she perceived that his jokes were not over,
When Reynard removed from the victuals its cover
'Twas neither game, butcher's meat, chicken, not fish;
But plain gravy-soup, in a broad shallow dish.
Now this the fox lapp'd with his tongue very quick,
While the crane could scarce dip in the point of her beak;
"You make a poor dinner," said he to his guest;
"Oh, dear! by no means," said the bird, "I protest."
But the crane ask'd the fox on a subsequent day,
When nothing, it seems, for their dinner had they
But some minced meat served up in a narrow-neck'd jar;
Too long, and narrow, for Reynard by far.
"You make a poor dinner, I fear," said the bird;
"Why, I think," said the fox, "'twould be very absurd
To deny what you say, yet I cannot complain,
But confess, though a fox, that I'm matched by a crane."

MORAL.

Cunning folks who play tricks which good manners condemn,
Often find their own tricks play'd again upon them.

THE TRAVELLER AND THE SATYR.

A luckless wight, in winter slow,
Travelling once a forest through
Cold and hungry, tired and wet,
Began in words like these to fret:
"Oh, what a sharp inclement day!
And what a dismal, dreary way!
No friendly cot, no cheering fields,
No food this howling forest yields;
I've nought in store or expectation!
There's nought before me but starvation."

"Not quite so bad," a voice replied;
Quickly the traveller turned aside,
And saw the satyr of the wood,
Who close beside his dwelling stood.
"Here is my cave hard by," said he,
"Walk in, you're welcome, pray be free."

The traveller did not hesitate,
Hoping for something good to eat,
But follow'd to his heart's content,
Blowing his finger as he went.

"Pray," said the satyr, "may I know
For what you blow your fingers so?"

"What! need you," said the man, "be told?--
To _warm_ my fingers, 'numb'd with cold."

"Indeed!" was all his host replied,
Intent some pottage to provide,
Which heated well, with spice infused,
Was to his shivering guest produced:

So hot it was, as Esop sung,
It made our traveller scald his tongue;
And wishing not again to do it,
Our hero could not wait, but blew it.

"What?" said his host, in accent rough,
"Is not your pottage hot enough?"
"Yes," said the man, "full well I know it,
'Tis far too hot, that's why I blow it."
"You artful villain! do you so?"
His host replied, with angry brow;
"My cave shall not a moment hold
A man that blows both hot and cold!
By none but rogues can that be done,
You double-dealing wretch, begone!"

MORAL.

The traveller scarce deserved such wrath,
For warming fingers--cooling broth.
No statutes old or new forbid it,
Although with the same mouth he did it:
Yet this beware of old and young,
What Esop meant--a _double tongue_;
Which flatters now with civil clack,
And slanders soon behind one's back.

THE TRAVELLERS AND THE PURSE.

Two friends once were walking in sociable chat,
  When a purse one espied on the ground;
"Oh, see!" said he, (thank my fortune for that,)
  "What a large sum of money I've found!"

"Nay, do not say _I_" said his friend, "for you know
  'Tis but friendship to share it with me;"
"I share it with you," said the other. "How so?
  He who _found_ it the owner should be."

"Be it so," said his friend, "but what sound do I hear?
  'Stop thief!' one is calling to you;
He comes with a constable close in the rear!"
  Said the other, "Oh, what shall we do?"

"Nay, do not say _we_," said his friend, "for you know
  You claimed the sole right to the prize!
And since all the _money_ was taken by you,
  With you the _dishonesty_ lies."

MORAL.

When people are selfish, dishonest, and mean,
Their nature, in dealing, will quickly be seen.

THE MOUTH AND THE LIMBS.

In days of yore, they say, 'twas then
  When all things spoke their mind;
The arms and legs of certain men,
  To treason felt inclined.

These arms and legs together met,
  As snugly as they could,
With knees and elbows, hands and feet,
  In discontented mood.

Said they, "'Tis neither right nor fair,
  Nor is there any need,
To labor with such toil and care,
  The greedy mouth to feed."

"This we're resolved no more to do,
  Though we so long have done it;"
"Ah!" said the knees and elbows too,
  "And we are bent upon it."

"I," said the tongue, "may surely speak,
  Since I his inmate am;
And for his vices while you seek,
  His virtues I'll proclaim.

"You say the mouth embezzles all,
  The fruit of your exertion;
But I on this assembly call
  To prove the base assertion.

"The food which you with labor gain,
  He too with labor chews;
Nor does he long the food retain,
  But gives it for your use.

"But he his office has resign'd
  To whom you may prefer;
He begs you therefore now to find
  Some other treasurer."

"Well, be it so," they all replied;
  "His wish shall be obeyed;
We think the hands may now be tried
  As treasurers in his stead."

The hands with joy to this agreed,
  And all to them was paid;
But they the treasure kept indeed,
  And no disbursements made.

Once more the clam'rous members met,
  A lean and hungry throng;
When all allowed, from head to feet,
  That what they'd done was wrong.

To take his office once again,
  The mouth they all implored;
Who soon accepted it, and then
  Health was again restored.

MORAL.

This tale for state affairs is meant,
  Which we need not discuss;
At present we will be content,
  To find a moral thus:

The mouth has claims of large amount,
  From arms, legs, feet, and hands;
But let them not, on that account,
 Pay _more_ than it demands.

THE HARE AND THE TORTOISE.

Said a hare to a tortoise, "Good sir, what a while
  You have been only crossing the way;
Why I really believe that to go half a mile,
  You must travel two nights and a day."

"I am very contented," the creature replied,
  "Though I walk but a tortoise's pace,
But if you think proper the point to decide,
  We will run half a mile in a race."

"Very good," said the hare; said the tortoise, "Proceed,
  And the fox shall decide who has won,"
Then the hare started off with incredible speed;
  But the tortoise walk'd leisurely on.

"Come tortoise, friend tortoise, walk on," said the hare,
  "Well, I shall stay here for my dinner;
Why, 'twill take you a month, at that rate, to get there,
  Then how can you hope to be winner?"

But the tortoise could hear not a word that she said
  For he was far distant behind;
So the hare felt secured while at leisure she fed,
  And took a sound nap when she dined.

So at last this slow walker came up with the hare,
  And there fast asleep did he spy her;
And he cunningly crept with such caution and care,
  That she woke not, although he pass'd by her.

"Well now," thought the hare, when she open'd her eyes,
  "For the race,--and I soon shall have done it;"
But who can describe her chagrin and surprise,
  When she found that the _tortoise_ had won it!

MORAL.

Thus plain plodding people, we often shall find,
Will leave hasty confident people behind.

THE MILKMAID.

A milkmaid, who poized a full pail on her head,
Thus mused on her prospects in life, it is said:
"Let's see--I should think that this milk will procure
One hundred good eggs, or fourscore to be sure.

"Well then--stop a bit,--it must not be forgotten,
Some of these may be broken, and some may be rotten;
But if twenty for accidents should be detach'd,
It will leave me just sixty sound eggs to hatch'd.

"Well, sixty sound eggs--no; sound chickens, I mean;
Of these some may die--we'll suppose seventeen--
Seventeen!--not so many--say ten at the most,
Which will leave fifty chickens to boil or to roast.

"But then there's their barley; how much will they need?
Why they take but one grain at a time when they feed,
So that's a mere trifle; now then let us see,
At a fair market price, how much money there'll be?

"Six shillings a pair--five--four--three-and-six,
To prevent all mistakes, that low price I will fix;
Now what will that make? fifty chickens, I said,
Fifty times three-and-sixpence--_I'll ask brother Ned_.

"Oh! but stop--three-and-sixpence a _pair_ I must sell 'em;
Well, a pair is a couple--now then let us tell 'em;
A couple in fifty will go--(my poor brain!)
Why just a score times, and five pair will remain.

"Twenty-five pair of fowls--now how shameful it is,
That I can't reckon up as much money as this!
Well, there's no use in trying; so let's give a guess;
I will say twenty pounds, and _it can't be no less_.

"Twenty pounds, I am certain, will buy me a cow,
Thirty geese, and two turkeys--eight pigs and a sow;
Now if these turn out well, at the end of the year,
I shall fill both my pockets with guineas 'tis clear.

"Then I'll bid that old tumble-down hovel good-bye;
My mother she'll scold, and my sisters they'll cry:
But I won't care a crow's egg for all they can say;
I sha'n't go to stop with such beggars as they!"

But forgetting her burden, when this she had said,
The maid superciliously toss'd up her head
When alas! for her prospects--the milk pail descended!
And so all her schemes for the future were ended.

MORAL.

This moral, I think, may be safely attach'd:
Reckon not on your chickens before they are hatch'd.

THE LARK AND HER YOUNG ONES.

A lark who had her nest conceal'd,
Says Esop, in a barley field;
Began, as harvest time drew near,
The reaping of the corn to fear;
Afraid they would her nest descry,
Before her tender brood could fly.
She charged them therefore every day,
Before for food she flew away,
To watch the farmer in her stead,
And listen well to all he said.

It chanced one day, she scarce was gone,
Ere the farmer came and his son.
The farmer well his field survey'd,
And sundry observations made;
At last, "I'll tell you what," said he,
"This corn is fit to cut, I see;
But we our neighbor's help must borrow,
So tell them we begin to-morrow."

Just after this the lark returned,
When from her brood this news she learned.
"Ah! dearest mother," then, said they,
"Pray, let us all begone to-day."

"My dears," said she, "you need not fret,
I shall not be uneasy yet;
For if he waits for neighbor's aid,
The business long will be delay'd."

At dawn she left her nest once more,
And charged her young ones as before.

At five the farmer came again,
And waited for his friends in vain,
"Well," said the man, "I fancy, son,
These _friends_ we can't depend upon;
To-morrow early, mind you go,
And let our own _relations_ know."

Again the lark approach'd her nest,
When round her all her young ones press'd,
And told their mother, word for word,
The fresh intelligence they heard.

"Ah, children, be at ease," said she
"We're safe another day, I see;
For these _relations_, you will find,
Just like his _friends_, will stay behind."

At dawn again the lark withdrew,
And did again her charge renew.

Once more the farmer early came,
And found the case was just the same.
The day advanced, the sun was high;
But not a single help drew nigh.
Then said the farmer, "Hark ye, son--
I see this job will not be done,
While thus we wait for friends and neighbors;
So you and I'll commence our labors:
To-morrow early, we'll begin
_Ourselves_, and get our harvest in."

"Now," said the lark, when this she heard,
"Our movement must not be deferr'd;
For if the farmer and his son
Themselves begin, 'twill soon be done."

The morrow proved the lark was right;
For all was cut and housed by night.

MORAL.

Hence, while we wait for other's aid,
Our business needs must be delay'd;
Which might be done with half the labor
'Twould take to go and call a neighbor.

THE PHILOSOPHER AND THE
ACORN.

A philosopher, proud of his wit and his reason,
Sat him under an oak in a hot summer season.
On the oak grew an acorn or two, it is said:
On the ground grew a pumpkin as big as his head.

Thought the sage, "What's the reason this oak is so strong
A few acorns to bear that are scarce an inch long;
While this poor feeble plant has a weight to sustain,
Which had much better hang on the tree, it is plain?"

But just at the time the philosopher spoke
An acorn dropp'd down on his head from the oak;
Then, said he, who just now thought _his_ plan was so clever,
"I am glad that _this_ was not a pumpkin, however."

MORAL.

The sage would no doubt have looked grievously dull,
Had a pumpkin descended with force on his scull.
Of his folly then let us in future beware,
And believe that _such_ matters _are best as they are_:
Leave the manners and customs of oak trees alone,
Of acorns, and pumpkins--and look to our own.

THE WOLF AND THE CRANE.

A wolf, once forgetting the size of his swallow,
  Tried to pass a large marrow-bone through it.
"Oh dear," said the beast, thinking death was to follow,
  "How careless and stupid to do it!"

His mouth was propp'd open by means of the bone,
  And his breathing was greatly impeded,
But a crane coming up, he contrived to make known
  What kind of assistance he needed.

"How d'ye do?" said the bird; said the beast, "Very ill,
  For a bone has gone down the wrong way;
But if you can extract it by means of your bill,
  The service I'll amply repay."

Thought the crane, "I'm no surgeon: yet all must agree,
  That my bill will make excellent _forceps_;
And as for the money, I do not now see
  Why I need refuse taking his worship's."

Said the bird, "It's agreed;" said his patient, "Proceed,
  And take the bone hence, I beseech;"
Which, after awhile, and with infinite toil,
  The crane at last managed to reach.

"Thank my stars!" said the beast, from his terrors released,
  "Thank you _too_, sir," said he to the bird;
"Alas!" said the crane, "is this all I'm to gain,
  I was waiting the promised reward."

Said the wolf, "You forget, I've contracted no debt,
  Since the service was _rendered by me_;
Your head I releas'd from the jaws of a beast,
  And now you're demanding a fee!"

MORAL.

Give your help to a wolf, should he beg for your aid,
But you must not expect when you've done to be paid.

THE DOG AND THE SHADOW.

A dog growing thinner, for want of a dinner,
  Once purloined him a joint from a tray,
"How happy I am, with this shoulder of lamb,"
  Thought the cur as he trotted away.

But the way that he took, lay just over a brook,
  Which he found it was needful to cross;
So without more ado, he plunged in to go through,
  Not dreaming of danger or loss.

But what should appear, in this rivulet clear,
  As he thought upon coolest reflection,
But a cur like himself, who with ill-gotten pelf,
  Had run off in that very direction.

Thought the dog, _a propos_! but that instant let go
  (As he snatched at this same water-spaniel)
The piece he possess'd:--so with hunger distress'd
  He slowly walk'd home to his kennel.

MORAL.

Hence, when we are needy, don't let us be greedy,
  (Excuse me this line of digression,)
Lest in snatching at all, like the dog, we let fall
  The good that we have in possession.

THE TRAVELLERS AND THE BEAR.

Two trav'llers one morning set out from their home,
It might be from Sparta, from Athens, or Rome;
It matters not which, but agreed, it is said,
Should danger arise, to lend each other aid.

But scarce was this done, when forth rushing amain,
Sprung a bear from a wood tow'rds these travellers twain;
Then one of our heroes, with courage immense,
Climb'd into a tree, and there found his defence.

The other fell flat to the earth with dread,
When the bear came and smelt him, and thought he was dead;
So not liking the carcase, away trotted he,
When straight our brave hero descended the tree.

Then, said he, "I can't think what the bear could propose,
When so close to your ear, he presented his nose."
"Why this," said the other, "he told me to do,
To beware for the future of cowards like you."

MORAL.

Those people who run from their friends in distress,
Will be left when _themselves_ are in trouble, I guess.

THE FROGS AND THE BULL.

A Bull once treading near a bog,
Displaced the entrails of a frog,
  Who near his foot did trust them;
In fact, so great was the contusion,
And made of his inwards such confusion,
  No art could re-adjust them.

It chanced that some who saw his fate,
Did to a friend the deed relate,
  With croakings, groans, and hisses;
"The beast," said they, "in size excell'd
All other beasts," their neighbors swell'd,
  And ask'd, "as large as this is!"

"Oh, larger far than that," said they,
"Do not attempt it, madam, pray;"
  But still the frog distended,
And said, "I'll burst, but I'll exceed,"
She tried, and burst herself indeed!
  And so the matter ended.

MORAL.

Should you with pride inflate and swell,
As did the frog: then who can tell!
Your sides may crack, as has been shown,
And we with laughing crack our own.

THE COUNCIL OF MICE.

Some mice who saw fit, once a quarter to meet,
  To arrange the concerns of their city;
Thought it needful to choose, as is common with us,
  First a chairman, and then a committee.

When the chairman was seated, the object he stated
  For which at that meeting they sat:
Which was, it should seem, the concerting a scheme
  To defeat the designs of the cat.

Dr. Nibblecheese rose, and said, "I would propose,
  To this cat we fasten a bell;
He who likes what I've said, now will hold up his head;
  He who does not, may hold up his tail."

So out of respect, they their noses erect,
  Except one who the order reversed;
_Ayes_, all then but one, but yet nought could be done,
  Until he had his reasons rehearsed.

"I shall not," said this mouse, "waste the time of the house,
  In long arguments; since, as I view it,
The scheme would succeed without doubt, if indeed
  We could find any mouse who would _do it_."

"Hear! hear!" was the cry, and "no bells we will try,
  Unless you will fasten them on;"
So quite broken-hearted the members departed,
  For the bill was rejected _nem. con._

MORAL.

Then be not too hasty in giving advice,
Lest your schemes should remind of the council of mice;
You had better delay your opinion a year,
Than put forth a ridiculous one, it is clear.

THE WOLF AND THE LAMB.

A wolf and lamb once chanced to meet,
Beside a stream, whose waters sweet
Brought various kinds of beasts together,
When dry and sultry was the weather;
Now though the wolf came there to _drink_,
Of _eating_, he began to think,
As soon as near the lamb he came,
And straight resolved to kill the same;
Yet thought it better to begin,
With threat'ning words and angry mien.

"And so," said he, to him below,
"How dare you stir the water so?
Making the cool refreshing flood,
As brown as beer, and thick as mud."

"Sir," said the lamb, "that cannot be,
The water flows _from you to me_;
So, 'tis impossible, I think,
That what I do can spoil your drink."

"I say it does, you saucy puss:
How dare you contradict me thus;
But more than this, you idle clack,
You rail'd at me behind my back
Two years ago, I have been told;"
"How so? I'm not a twelvemonth old,"
The lamb replied; "So I suspect
Your honor is not quite correct."

"If not, your mother it must be,
And that comes all the same to me,"
Rejoined the wolf--who waited not
But kill'd and ate him on the spot.

MORAL.

Some, like the wolf, adopt the plan,
To make a quarrel _if they can_;
But none with you can hold dispute,
If you're _determined_ to be mute;
For sure this proverb must be true,
That ev'ry _quarrel_ must have _two_.

THE BEASTS IN PARTNERSHIP.

This _firm_ once existed, I'd have you to know,
Messrs. Lion, Wolf, Tiger, Fox, Leopard, and Co.;
These in business were join'd, and of course 'twas implied,
They their stocks should unite, and the profits divide.

Now the fable relates, it so happened one day,
That their efforts combined, made a bullock their prey:
But agreed that the Lion should make the division,
And patiently waited the monarch's decision.

"My friends," said the Lion, "I've parted, you see,
The whole into six, which is right, you'll agree;
One part I may claim, as my share in the trade."
"Oh, take it and welcome," they all of them said.

"I claim too the second; since no one denies
'Twas my courage and conduct that gained you the prize:
And for the third; that you know is a fine
To the Lord of the manor, and therefore is mine."

"Hey day!" said the fox; "Stop a bit," said the lion,
"I have not quite done," said he, fixing his eye on
The other three parts; "you are fully aware,
That, as _tribute_, one other part comes to my share.

"And I think 'twould be prudent, the next to put by
Somewhere safe in _my_ den for a future supply,
And the other, you know, will but barely suffice,
To pay those expenses which always arise."

"If this be the case," said the fox, "I discern
That the business to _us_ is a losing concern;
If so to withdraw, I should think would be best;"
"Oh, yes! let us break up the firm," said the rest;

And so:--for you may not have heard of it yet,--
It was quickly dissolved, though not in _the gazette_.

MORAL.

Some folks in their dealings, like him in the fable,
Will take others' shares, if they think they are able;
But let them not wonder who act in this way,
If they find none will join them in business or play.

THE LION AND THE MOUSE.

A lion, with the heat oppress'd,
One day composed himself to rest;
But whilst he dozed, as he intended,
A mouse his royal back ascended;
Nor thought of harm as Esop tells,
Mistaking him for something else,
And travelled over him, and round him,
And might have left him as he found him,
Had he not, tremble when you hear,
Tried to explore the monarch's ear!
Who straightway woke with wrath immense,
And shook his head to cast him thence.
"You rascal, what are you about,"
Said he, when he had turned him out.
"I'll teach you soon," the lion said,
"To make a mouse-hole in my head!"
So saying, he prepared his foot,
To crush the trembling tiny brute;
But he, the mouse, with tearful eye,
Implored the lion's clemency,
Who thought it best at least to give
His little pris'ner a reprieve.
'Twas nearly twelve months after this,
The lion chanced his way to miss;
When pressing forward: heedless yet,
He got entangled in a net.
With dreadful rage he stamp'd and tore,
And straight commenced a lordly roar;
When the poor mouse who heard the noise,
Attended, for she knew his voice.
Then what the lion's utmost strength
Could not effect, she did at length:
With patient labor she applied
Her teeth, the net-work to divide;
And so at last forth issued he,
A _lion_, by a mouse set free.

MORAL.

Few are so small or weak, I guess,
But may assist us in distress;
Nor shall we ever, if we're wise,
The meanest, or the least, despise.

THE JEALOUS ASS.

"There lived," says friend Esop, "some ages ago,
An ass who had feelings acute, you must know;
This ass to be jealous, felt strongly inclined,
And for reasons which follow, felt hurt in his mind."

It seems that his master, as I understand,
Had a favorite dog which he fed from his hand.
Nay, the dog was permitted to jump on his knee:
An honor that vex'd our poor donkey to see.

"Now," thought he, "what's the reason, I cannot see any,
That I have no favors, while he has so many?
If all this is got by just wagging his tail,
Why _I_ have got one, which I'll wag without fail."

So the donkey resolved to try what he could do
And, determined unusual attentions to show,
When his master was dining, came into the room.
"Good sir!" said his friends, "why your donkey is come!"

"Indeed!" said their host, great astonishment showing,
When he saw the ass come, while his tail was a-going;
But who can describe his dismay or fear,
When the donkey rear'd up, and bray'd loud in his ear!

"You rascal get down,--John, Edward, or Dick!
Where are you? make haste, and come here with a stick."
The man roared--the guests laugh'd--the dog bark'd--the bell rung:
Coals, poker, and tongs, at the donkey were flung,

Till the blows and the kicks, with combined demonstration,
Convinced him that this was a bad speculation;
So, mortified deeply, his footsteps retrod he,
Hurt much in his mind, but still more in his body.

MORAL.

So some silly children, as stupid as may be,
Will cry for indulgences fit for a baby.
Had they enter'd the room while the donkey withdrew,
They'd have seen their own folly and punishment too:
Let them think of this fable, and what came to pass;
Nor forget, he who play'd this fine game was _an ass_.

THE TOWN AND COUNTRY MICE.

A plain, but honest, country mouse,
Residing in a miller's house;
Once, on a time, invited down
An old acquaintance of the town:
And soon he brought his dainties out;
The best he had there's not a doubt.
A dish of oatmeal and green peas,
With half a candle, and some cheese;
Some beans, and if I'm not mistaken,
A charming piece of Yorkshire bacon.
And then to show he was expert
In such affairs, a fine dessert
Was next produced, all which he press'd,
With rustic freedom, on his guest.

But he, the city epicure,
This homely fare could not endure
Indeed he scarcely broke his fast
By what he took, but said, at last,
"Old crony, now, I'll tell you what:
I don't admire this lonely spot;
This dreadful, dismal, dirty hole,
Seems more adapted for a mole
Than 'tis for you; Oh! could you see
_My_ residence, how charm'd you'd be.
Instead of bringing up your brood
In wind, and wet, and solitude,
Come bring them all at once to town,
We'll make a courtier of a clown.
I think that, for your children's sake,
'Tis proper my advice to take."
"Well," said his host, "I can but try,
And so poor quiet hole good bye!"

Then off they jogg'd for many a mile,
Talking of splendid things the while;
At last, in town, they all arrived--
Found where the city mouse had lived--
Entered at midnight through a crack,
And rested from their tedious track.

"Now," said the city mouse, "I'll show
What kind of fare I've brought you to:"
On which he led the rustic mice
Into a larder, snug and nice,
Where ev'ry thing a mouse could relish,
Did ev'ry shelf and nook embellish.

"Now is not this to be preferr'd
To your green peas?" "Upon my word,
It is," the country mouse replied,
"All this must needs the point decide."

Scarce had they spoke these words, when, lo!
A tribe of servants hasten'd through,
And also two gigantic cats,
Who spied our country mouse and brats.
Then, by a timely exit, she
Just saved herself and family.

"Oh, ask me not," said she in haste,
"Your tempting dainties more to taste;
I much prefer my homely peas,
To splendid dangers such as these."

MORAL.

Then let not those begin to grumble,
Whose lot is safe, though poor and humble;
Nor envy him who better fares,
But for each good, has twenty cares.

THE FOX AND THE CROW.

Crows feed upon worms: yet an author affirms
  Cheshire cheese they will get if they're able;
"For," said he, "I well know, one unprincipled crow
  Once purloined a large piece from my table."

Then away darted she, to the shade of a tree,
  To deposit the booty within her;
But it never occurr'd to the mind of the bird,
  That a _fox_ was to have it for dinner.

"How many a slip, 'twixt the cup and the lip!"
  (Excuse me, I pray, the digression,)
Said a fox to himself, "I can share in the pelf,
  If I act with my usual discretion."

So said he, "Is it you? pray, ma'am, how do you do,
  I have long wish'd to pay you a visit;
For a twelvemonth has pass'd, since I heard of you last
  Which is not very neighborly, is it?

"But, dear madam," said he, "you are dining, I see;
  On that subject I'd ask your advice;
Pray, ma'am, now can you tell, where provisions they sell,
  That are not an extravagant price?

"Bread and meat are so dear, and have been for a year,
  That poor people can scarcely endure it,
And then _cheese is so high_, that such beggars as I,
  _Till it falls_, cannot hope to procure it."

But the ill-behaved bird did not utter a word,
  Still intent on retaining her plunder;
Thought the fox, "It should seem, this is not a good scheme,
  What else can I think of, I wonder?"

So said Reynard once more, "I ne'er knew it before,
  But your feathers are whiter than snow is!"
But thought he, when he'd said it, "she'll ne'er give it credit,
  For what bird is so black as a crow is."
"But I'm told that your voice is a horrible noise,
  Which they say of all sounds is the oddest;
But then this is absurd, for it never is heard,
  Since you are so excessively modest."

If _that's_ all thought the crow, "I will soon let you know
  That all doubt on that score may be ended;"
Then most laughingly piped, the poor silly biped,
  When quickly her dinner descended!

MORAL.

If this _biped_ had not been so vain and conceited,
She would not by the fox quite so soon have been cheated;
But perhaps the term _biped_ to some may be new:
'Tis a two-legged creature--perchance it is _you_.

THE LION AND THE ECHO.

A lion, bravest of the wood,
Whose title undisputed stood,
As o'er the wide domains he prowl'd,
And in pursuit of booty growl'd,
An Echo from a distant cave
Regrowl'd, articulately grave:
His majesty, surprised, began
To think at first it was a man;
But on reflection sage, he found
It was too like a lion's sound.
"Whose voice is that which growls at mine?"
His highness ask'd. Says Echo, "Mine!"
"Thine!" says the Lion: "Who art thou?"
Echo as stern cried, "Who art thou?"
"Know I'm a lion, hear and tremble!"
Replied the king. Cried Echo, "Tremble!"
"Come forth," says Lion; "show thyself."
Laconic Echo answered, "Elf."
"Elf, durst thou call me, vile pretender?"
Echo as loud replies, "Pretender!"
At this, as jealous of his reign,
He growl'd in rage; she growl'd again.
Incensed the more, he chafed and foam'd,
And round the spacious forest roam'd
To find the rival of his throne,
Who durst with him dispute the crown.

A fox, who listen'd all the while,
Address'd the monarch with a smile:
"My liege, most humbly I make bold,
Though truth may not be always told,
That this same phantom which you hear,
That so alarms your royal ear,
Is not a rival of your throne:
The voice and fears are all your own."
Imaginary terrors scare
A timorous soul with real fear;
Nay, even the wise and brave are cow'd
By apprehensions from the crowd:
A frog a lion may disharm,
And yet how causeless the alarm!

THE PAPER KITE.

Once on a time, a paper kite
Was mounted to a wondrous height;
Where, giddy with its elevation,
It thus express'd self-admiration:
"See how yon crowds of gazing people
Admire my flight above the steeple;
How would they wonder, if they knew
All that a kite, like me, could do?
Were I but free, I'd take a flight,
And pierce the clouds beyond their sight.
But, ah! like a poor prisoner bound,
My string confines me near the ground.
I'd brave the eagle's towering wing,
Might I but fly without a string."
It tugg'd and pull'd, while thus it spoke,
To break the string--at last it broke!
Deprived at once of all its stay,
In vain it tried to soar away:
Unable its own weight to bear,
It flutter'd downward through the air;
Unable its own course to guide,
The winds soon plunged it in the tide.
Oh! foolish kite, thou hadst no wing,
How could'st thou fly without a string?
My heart replied, "Oh, Lord, I see
How much the kite resembles me!
Forgetful that by thee I stand,
Impatient of thy ruling hand;
How oft I've wish'd to break the lines
Thy wisdom for my lot assigns!
How oft indulged a vain desire
For something more or something higher!
And but for grace and love divine,
A fall thus dreadful had been mine."

THE RATS AND THE CHEESE.

If bees a government maintain,
Why may not rats of stronger brain
And greater power, as well bethought
By Machiavelian axioms taught?
And so they are, for thus of late
It happened in the rats' free state.
Their prince (his subjects more to please)
Had got a mighty Cheshire cheese,
In which his ministers of state
Might live in plenty and grow great.
A powerful party straight combined,
And their united forces join'd,
To bring their measures into play,
For none so loyal were as they;
And none such patriots, to support
As well the country as the court.
No sooner were those Dons admitted
But (all those wondrous virtues quitted)
They all the speediest means devise
To raise themselves and families.
Another party well observing
These pamper'd were, while they were starving,
Their ministry brought in disgrace,
Expelled them and supplied their place;
These on just principles were known
The true supporters of the throne,
And for the subjects liberty
They'd (marry would they) freely die;
But being well fix'd in their station,
Regardless of their prince and nation,
Just like the others, all their skill
Was how they might their paunches fill.
On this a rat, not quite so blind
In state intrigues as human kind,
But of more honor, thus replied:
"Confound ye all on either side;
All your contentions are but these,
Whose arts shall best secure the cheese."

AURELIA AND THE SPIDER.

The muslin torn, from tears of grief
In vain Aurelia sought relief;
In sighs and plaints she pass'd the day;
The tatter'd frock neglected lay:
While busied at the weaving trade,
A spider heard the sighing maid
And kindly stopping in a trice,
Thus offer'd (gratis) her advice:
"Turn, little girl! behold in me
A stimulus to industry
Compare your woes, my dear, with mine,
Then tell me who should most repine:
This morning, ere you left your room,
The chambermaid's remorseless broom
In one sad moment that destroy'd,
To build which thousands were employ'd!
The shock was great; but as my life
I saved in the relentless strife,
I knew lamenting was in vain,
So patient went to work again.
By constant work, a day or more,
My little mansion did restore:
And if each tear which you have shed
Had been a needle-full of thread,
If every sigh of sad despair
Had been a stitch of proper care,
Closed would have been the luckless rent,
Nor thus the day have been misspent."

THE REDBREAST AND THE
SPARROW.

Perch'd on a tree, hard by a rural cot,
A redbreast singing cheer'd the humble spot;
A sparrow on the thatch in critic spleen
Thus took occasion to reprove the strain:
"Dost thou," cried he, "thou dull dejected thing,
Presume to emulate the birds of spring?
Can thy weak warbling dare approach the thrush
Or blackbird's accents in the hawthorn bush?
Or with the lark dost thou poor mimic, vie,
Or nightingale's unequal'd melody?
These other birds possessing twice thy fire
Have been content in silence to admire."
"With candor judge," the minstrel bird replied,
"Nor deem my efforts arrogance or pride;
Think not ambition makes me act this part,
I only sing because I love the art:
I envy not, indeed, but much revere
Those birds whose fame the test of skill will bear;
I feel no hope arising to surpass,
Nor with their charming songs my own to class;
Far other aims incite my humble strain.
Then surely I your pardon may obtain,
While I attempt the rural vale to move
By imitating of the lays I love."

THE POET AND THE COBWEBS.

A bard, whose pen had brought him more
Of fame than of the precious ore,
In Grub Street garret oft reposed
With eyes contemplative half-closed.
Cobwebs around in antique glory,
Chief of his household inventory,
Suggested to his roving brains
Amazing multitude of scenes.

"This batch," said he, "of murder-spinners
Who toil their brains out for their dinners,
Though base, too long unsung has lain
By kindred brethren of Duck Lane,
Unknowing that its little plan
Holds all the cyclopedia of man.

"This one, whose radiant thread
Is every where from centre spread,
Like orbs in planetary skies,
Enclosed with rounds of various size,
This curious frame I aptly call
A cobweb mathematical.

"In secret holes, that dirty line,
Where never sun presumes to shine,
With straws, and filth, and time beset,
Where all is fish that comes to net,
That musty film, the Muse supposes
Figures the web of Virtuosos.

"You, where the gaudy insect sings,
Are cobwebs of the court of kings,
Where gilded threads conceal the gin.
And broider'd knaves are caught therein.

"That holly, fix'd 'mid mildew'd panes,
Of cheerless Christmas the remains
(I only dream and sing its cheer,
My Muse keeps Lent throughout the year)
That holly, labor'd o'er and o'er,
Is cobwebs of the lawyer's lore,
Where frisky flies, on gambols borne,
Find out the snare, when lost, undone.

"These dangling webs, with dirt and age,
Display their tatter'd equipage,
So like the antiquarian crew,
That those in every thread I view.

"Here death disseminated lies,
In shrunk anatomies of flies;
And amputated limbs declare
What vermin lie in ambush there:
A baited lure with drugg'd perdition,
A cobweb, not misnamed physician.

"Those plaited webs, long pendent there,
Of sable bards a subtle snare,
Of all-collective disposition,
Which holds like gout of inquisition,
May well denominated be,
The trap-webs of divinity."

But whilst our bard described the scene,
A bee stole through a broken pane;
Fraught with the sweets of every flower,
In taking his adventurous tour,
Is there entrapp'd. Exert thy sting,
Bold bee, and liberate thy wing!
The poet kindly dropp'd his pen,
And freed the captive from its den;
Then musing o'er his empty table,
Forgot the moral of his fable.

THE EPICURE AND THE PHYSICIAN.

Two hundred years ago, or more,
An heir possess'd a miser's store;
Rejoiced to find his father dead,
Till then on thrifty viands fed;
Unnumber'd dishes crown'd his board,
With each unwholesome trifle stored.
He ate--and long'd to eat again,
But sigh'd for appetite in vain:
His food, though dress'd a thousand ways,
Had lost its late accustom'd praise;
He relish'd nothing--sickly grew--
Yet long'd to taste of something new.
It chanced in this disastrous case,
One morn betimes he join'd the chase:
Swift o'er the plain the hunters fly,
Each echoing out a joyous cry;
A forest next before them lay;
He, left behind, mistook his way,
And long alone bewildered rode,
He found a peasant's poor abode;
But fasting kept, from six to four,
Felt hunger, long unfelt before;
The friendly swain this want supplied,
And Joan some eggs and bacon fried.
Not dainty now, the squire in haste
Fell to, and praised their savory taste;
Nay, said his meal had such a _gout_
He ne'er in tarts and olios knew.
Rejoiced to think he'd found a dish,
That crown'd his long unanswer'd wish,
With gold his thankful host he paid,
Who guides him back from whence he stray'd;
But ere they part, so well he dined,
His rustic host the squire enjoin'd
To send him home next day a stock
Of those same eggs and charming hock.
He hoped this dish of savory meat
Would prove that still 'twas bliss to eat;
But, ah! he found, like all the rest,
These eggs were tasteless things at best;
The bacon not a dog would touch,
So rank--he never tasted such!
He sent express to fetch the clown,
And thus address'd him with a frown:
"These eggs, this bacon, that you sent,
For Christian food were never meant;
As soon I'll think the moon's a cheese,
As those you dress'd the same with these.
Little I thought"--"Sir," says the peasant,
"I'm glad your worship is so pleasant:
You joke, I'm sure: for I can swear,
The same the fowls that laid them are!
And know as well that all the bacon
From one the self-same flitch was taken:
The air, indeed, about our green
Is known to make the stomach keen."
"Is that the case?" the squire replied;
"That air shall be directly tried."
He gave command--a house he hired,
And down he goes with hope inspired,
And takes his cooks--a favorite train;
But still they ply their art in vain.
Perhaps 'twas riding did the feat:
He rides,--but still he cannot eat.
At last a friend, to physic bred,
Perceived his case, and thus he said:
"Be ruled by me, you soon shall eat,
With hearty gust, the plainest meat;
A pint of milk each rising morn,
Procure from cow of sable horn;
Shake in three drops of morning dew
From twig of ever-verdant yew;
It must by your own hand be done,
Your face turn'd westward from the sun.
With this, ere half an hour is past,
Well crumb'd with biscuit, break your fast;
Which done, from food (or all is vain)
For twice three hours and one abstain--
Then dine on one substantial dish,
If plainly dress'd, of flesh or fish."
Grave look'd the doctor as he spake--
The squire concludes th' advice to take,
And, cheated into temperance, found
The bliss his former luxury drown'd.

THE FROGS DESIRING A KING.

Athens in freedom flourish'd long,
'Till licence seized the giddy throng.
Just laws grown weary to obey,
They sunk to tyranny a prey.
Pisistratus, though mild he sway'd,
Their turbulence had not allay'd.
Whilst they were cursing in despair,
The yoke they had not learn'd to bear,
Esop, their danger to describe,
Rehears'd this fable to the tribe:

"Some frogs, like you, of freedom tired,
From Jupiter a king desir'd:
One that should execute the law,
And keep the dissolute in awe.
Jove laugh'd, and threw them down a log,
That thundering fell and shook the bog.
Amongst the reeds the tremblers fled:
Till one more bold advanc'd his head,
And saw the monarch of the flood
Lying half smothered in the mud.
He calls the croaking race around:
"A wooden king!" the banks resound.
Fear once remov'd they swim about him,
And gibe and jeer and mock and flout him;
And messengers to Jove depute,
Effectively to grant their suit.
A hungry stork he sent them then,
Who soon had swallow'd half the fen.
Their woes scarce daring to reveal,
To Mercury by night they steal,
And beg him to entreat of Jove
The direful tyrant to remove.
'No,' says the God, 'they chose their lot,
And must abide what they have got:'
So you, my friends, had best go home
In peace, lest something worse should come."

THE HARE AND THE BRAMBLE.

A hare, closely pursued, thought it prudent and meet
To a bramble for refuge awhile to retreat;
He enter'd the covert, but entering, found
That briers and thorns did on all sides abound;
And that, though he was safe, yet he never could stir,
But his sides they would wound, or would tear off his fur:
He shrugg'd up his shoulders, but would not complain:
"To repine at small evils," quoth puss, "is in vain:
That no bliss can be perfect, I very well knew--
But from the same source good and evil doth flow--
And full sorely my skin though these briers may rend,
Yet they keep off the dogs, and my life will defend:
For the sake of the good, then, let evil be borne--
For each sweet has its bitter, each bramble its thorn."

THE HORSE AND THE STAG.

Within a certain pasture,
  There lived some creatures wild.
The sky was blue, the grass was green,
  The air was very mild.

Now though this field was large and fine,
  They could not live in love:
But for the grass in one large spot
  A horse and stag once strove.

The stag was strongest in the strife,
  And so the battle won;
And from the field the horse was sent
  And with chagrin was stung.

So to the man the horse applied,
  For help, the stag to beat,
And so effectual was his help,
  The stag had to retreat.

But when to go away he tried,
  The man held to him fast:
"Now that you are of use," he cried,
  "You'll serve me to the last."

THE CAT AND THE OLD MOUSE.

The mice o'errun a certain house--
In every spot was found a mouse.
So for a cat the mistress went,
And to the kitchen puss was sent.

With diligence were many caught,
And eaten up. The mice were taught
That they some cunning must devise
To keep the prey from pussy's eyes.

So on a certain shelf so high,
To reach which puss in vain might try,
There all the mice together got,
And they resolved to leave it not.

So pussy found that to eat them,
She must resort to stratagem.
And holding fast by means of pegs,
She hung suspended by the legs.

And downward she then hung her head,
And looked as though she were quite dead--
And thus she sought to cheat the mice,
And from their dwellings them entice.

A cunning mouse, well "up to trap,"
On pussy her two eyes did clap.
"Aha!" she cried, "puss are you there?
Within your reach, I would not dare--
Not e'en though it were proved by law,
That your whole skin were stuffed with straw."

THE FOX AND THE VIZOR MASK.

A fox while walking out one day,
Into a toy shop chanced to stray;
Among the toys that stood arrayed,
A vizor mask was there displayed,
With rosy cheeks, complexion fair,
And ruby lips and auburn hair,
And eyes of blue, and Grecian nose;
And many beauties to disclose,
It seemed made. The fox, with sighs,
Gazed on. "Ah, ah!" he cries,
"Look at this head it naught contains,
It has rare beauty, but no brains."

MORAL.

The accomplished beau, in air and mien how blest.
His hat well fashioned, and his hair well dress'd--
But still undress'd within: to give him brains
Exceeds his hatter's or his barber's pains.

THE GOOSE THAT LAID GOLDEN
EGGS.

A man once had a goose I'm told,
Which had laid each day an egg of gold.
Now if this treasure were well spent,
It might make any one content.
But no! this man desired more;
And though of eggs he had rich store;
He thought one day the goose he'd kill,
And then at once his pockets fill.
So chasing goosey round and round,
She soon was caught and firmly bound
He opened her from neck to tail
And then his folly did bewail.
For not a single egg was there,
And thus he lost this treasure rare.

THE FOX AND THE GRAPES.

A fox once took it in his pate,
To go beyond a garden gate,
To see if there grew on the trees,
Some food his hunger to appease.
So in he went and there he spied
Some grapes. To reach them hard he tried.
Now they were large and luscious too,
Quite purple, and beautiful to view.
So up he jumps with many a bound,
Until exhausted to the ground,
He falls. The grapes hang o'er his head,
In clusters large, "Well! well!" he said,
"You are but green, and hard as stone,
And all my time away is thrown.
I'll leave you to your solitude,
You are not fit to make me food."

THE MOUSE AND THE WEASEL.

A very thin and hungry mouse,
  Into a granary stole,
Where stood a basket full of grain,
  In which was a small hole.

After much squeezing he got in,
  And there he ate his fill;
But when he tried to issue out,
  The hole seemed smaller still.

A weasel who stood looking on,
  Cried out in sneering tone,
"You can't come out, my little dear,
  Until you've smaller grown.

"You were half-starved when you crept in,
  And now you are quite stout;
So cease to eat until you can,
  As you got in, get out."

THE MISER AND HIS TREASURE.

  In a retired spot,
  A miser had got
A very large treasure in store.
  And it was his delight,
  Each morn and each night,
To count it and add to it more.

  He had made the hole deep,
  And he thought none would peep,
To find out his secret retreat.
  But a servant so sly,
  His master did spy,
And thought that his cunning he'd beat.

  So one dark winter night,
  He took out his light,
And to the field hastened away;
  And he laughed in his sleeve,
  To think how 'twould grieve
His master to miss it next day.

  And indeed the distress
  Of his lord you may guess,
For words can't describe it, I'm sure.
  He tore out his hair,
  Clasp'd his hands in despair
And cried he was ruined and poor.

  A man passing by,
  His grief chanced to spy;
And told him, "'tis useless to mourn.
  You can look at the hole,
  To solace your soul,
Although all the money is gone."

THE JACKDAW AND THE PEACOCKS.

Thus Esop has the folly shown,
To build on merits not your own.

A jackdaw, empty, pert and vain,
Who held his equals in disdain,
One day some beauteous feathers found,
Left by a peacock on the ground.
When in the gaudy plumage dress'd,
The shallow thing his fortune bless'd;
With stately gesture strode along,
And boldly join'd the peacock throng;
Who, his impertinence to pay,
First stripp'd him, and then chas'd away.
The crest-fall'n coxcomb homeward sneaks,
And his forsaken comrades seeks;
Where'er he comes, with scorn they leave him,
And not a jackdaw will receive him.
Says one he had disdain'd, at last,
"Such as thou art, thou mightst have pass'd,
And hadst not now been cast behind,
The scorn and scandal of thy kind."

THE SPARROW AND THE HARE.

Who dares another's ills deride,
Had best against his own provide.
An eagle pouncing on a hare,
With piercing cries puss rends the air;
When a pert sparrow from a tree,
Insulted thus her misery:
"Ho, ho! poor puss, thy boasted speed
Has failed thee, then, in time of need!"
Scarce had she spoke, when, like an arrow,
A vulture darted on the sparrow.
Ere the poor hare resign'd her breath,
"This sight," she cried, "consoles in death
--That thou, who hast my woes derided,
My last of miseries hast divided!"

THE ASS AND THE LION.

Vain boasters credit may surprise,
Till known; who knows them will despise.

A lion once a hunting took
An ass, and hid him in a nook.
To drive the forest made him bray,
That he might seize the passing prey.
Long-ears set up such horrid cries,
That every creature trembling flies;
The lion, practised in his trade,
Had soon abundant carnage made;
Satiate with spoil, the ass he calls,
And bid him cease his hideous brawls.
The king he found with slaughter weary,
Surrounded by his noble quarry,
And, puffed with self-importance, said:
"Sir, to some purpose I have bray'd!"
"No ass more famously could do,"
The lion says, "but thee I knew,
Or I might have been frightened too."

THE STAG AND THE FOUNTAIN.

That good from bad men rarely know,
This apologue may serve to show:

A stag upon a fountain's side,
Beheld his branching horns with pride;
While of his spindle-shanks asham'd,
Their disproportioned form he blam'd.
Sudden he hears the hunter's cries,
And to the forest nimbly flies.
The woods receive their well-known guest.
His tangled horns, his feet arrest;
The hounds approach, and seize their prey;
Who, dying, thus was heard to say:
"Wretch that I am! too late I learn,
How little we the truth discern!
What would have saved me, I despis'd,
And what has been my ruin, priz'd!"

THE EAGLE, THE CAT, AND THE
SOW.

Her nest on high an eagle made
Lower a cat her kittens laid;
And at the bottom of the tree
A sow dispos'd her progeny.
Vile puss to gain her wicked ends,
Much love for both of them pretends.
First to the eagle's aerie mounts,
And thus to her false alarms recounts:
"Madam, in truth our dangerous state,
'Tis with reluctance I relate;
But things are really gone so far,
Conceal them I no longer dare.
Night after night the treacherous sow
Our tree has undermined below;
Ere long it cannot choose but fall,
And then she hopes to eat us all."
Successful when she saw her lies,
Down to the bristly sow she hies;
"My worthy neighbor!" crying out,
"I pray you, mind what you're about,
For to a certainty I know,
The eagle waits but till you go,
(The thing with great concern I say,)
To make your little ones her prey."
Suspicious dread when thus inspir'd,
Puss to her hole all day retir'd;
Stealing at night on silent paw,
To stuff her own and kittens' maw.
To stir nor sow nor eagle dare.
What more? fell hunger ends their care;
And long the mischief-making beast
With her base brood on carrion feast.

Learn hence, ye simples, ere too late,
What ills the double-tongued create.

THE EAGLE, THE RAVEN AND
THE TORTOISE.

Who in their foe united find
Force, art, and a remorseless mind,
Whate'er their strength and prowess be,
To perish stand in jeopardy.

An eagle once a tortoise held,
Safe in his horny house concealed,
Which he in vain essayed to break
With all the fury of his beak.
As with his prey he wing'd the air,
A wily raven ventur'd near:
"Your prize is excellent," says she,
"And if you'll give a share to me,
I know, for all his iron hide,
How we the dainty may divide."
The bargain made, "On yonder wall,
Down," says the raven, "let him fall."
He listen'd to the hoary sinner;
And they on turtle made their dinner.

Thus fraud and force their purpose gain,
And nature fortifies in vain.

THE FLY AND THE HORSE.

A fly upon a coach-box seated,
With arrogance the horses rated.
"Advance!" cries out the paltry thing,
"Unless you mean to feel my sting."
"Not thee we heed," a horse replied,
"But him whose skilful hand can guide
The rein and whip. We better know
Than thee when we should stop or go."

Thus men without or sense or weight,
Think themselves born to rule the state.

ESOP AT PLAY.

When an Athenian Esop saw,
Playing with school-boys once at taw,
The man with laughter shook his sides;
Esop the laughter thus derides:
"Of this slack bow before you laid,
The meaning, sprightly sir," he said,
"Explain!" (A crowd had gather'd round.)
Surpris'd, the man no answer found:
He puzzled long, but all his wit
Could on no explanation hit.
The laugh on Esop's side; says he,
"Why you this bow unbended see,
It is because it needs must break,
If always bent; so we must take
Due relaxation, that the mind
Its vigor may when wanted find."

He who in harmless sport employs
A vacant hour, is not unwise.

THE OLD PILOT AND THE SAILORS.

To one complaining of his fate,
Esop this fable did relate.

A ship by raging tempests toss'd,
The seamen, giving all for lost,
'Twas who should weep and pray the most.
Grown calm at once the sky and sea,
They shout in joyful extacy.
The pilot, from experience wise,
The giddy crew did thus advise:
"Nor much rejoice, nor over grieve,
But decently what comes receive;
Since good and ill succeed so near,
Meet ill with hope and good with fear."

THE CRAB AND HER DAUGHTER.

Not what they hear, but what they see,
Will children and domestics be.

A crab one day her daughter chid;
"You never do as you are bid,
Have I not told you o'er and o'er,
That awkward gait to use no more?
Learn, ninny, once for all to know,
Folks forward and not backward go."
"Mamma," says Miss, "how strange you talk!
Have I not learn'd from you to walk?
Were I to move the other way,
How could I follow you I pray?"

THE SUN AND THE WIND.

Phebus and Boreas from on high
Upon the road a traveller spy,
Wearing a cloak for fear of rain.
Says Boreas, "his precaution's vain
'Gainst me, I'll show you for a joke
How soon I'll make him quit his cloak."
"Come on," says Phebus, "let us see
Who best succeeds, or you or me."
The wind to blow so fierce began,
He almost had upset his man;
But still his cloak, for all his roar,
Was wrapp'd more closely than before.
When Boreas what he could had done,
"Now for my trial," says the Sun,
And with his beams so warm'd the air,
The man his mantle could not bear,
But open'd first, then threw aside.

Learn hence, unbending sons of pride
Persuasive manners will prevail,
When menaces and bluster fail.

THE TWO POTS.

Forc'd on a stream to make their way,
To pot of brass says pot of clay:
"Since brass is stout and clay is frail,
Pray let us at a distance sail.
Not your intention that I fear
Sir Brass," adds humble Earthenware,
"While the winds leave you to yourself;
But woe betide my ribs of delf,
If it should dash our sides together;
For mine would be the damage, whether
Their force should you or I impel;
To pray proceed, and fare you well."

Learn hence, ye folks of low estate,
To keep due distance from the great.

HERCULES AND THE CARTER.

His cart bemired, a carter pray'd
To Hercules to come and aid.
"Up!" says the God, "thou lazy dog.
And lift the axle from the bog;
Think'st thou Gods nothing have to do
But listen to such knaves as you?"

THE ANT AND THE GRASSHOPPER.

From a wise emmet, well sustain'd
On what her industry had gain'd,
A grasshopper some aid desir'd.
"What was his trade?" the ant inquir'd.
"I've none," the grasshopper replied;
"I range the country far and wide,
Singing all day from door to door,
And have no time to form a store."
Shutting her granaries, says the ant,
"No wonder, friend, you are in want;
He who all summer sings, may chance
In winter to be forc'd to dance."

To spend his time in idle song,
The thoughtless grasshopper was wrong;
And not to give a small supply,
The emmet mean and niggardly.

THE CROW AND THE PITCHER.

Patience and ingenuity
The want of natural means supply.

A thirsty crow some water found,
But in a vessel so profound,
That with her neck at utmost stretch,
A single drop she could not reach.
Then stones she in the pitcher places,
Which to the top the water raises;
And by this innocent device
Her thirst at leisure satisfies.

THE ANGLER AND THE LITTLE
FISH.

An angler a small salmon caught,
Who with much earnestness besought
That he would let her go: says she,
"What can you do with such as me!
Next year when grown a little bigger,
I in your bag might make a figure."
The prudent man replied, "No, no;
Into my pouch, though small, you go.
A bird in hand is better far,
Than two that in the bushes are."

THE FROG AND THE FOX.

Let us our own defects amend,
Ere to guide others we pretend.

A sallow, wrinkl'd, spotted frog,
To turn physician left the bog.
"He every malady could cure,"
He said, "that animals endure."
"First on yourself your science show,"
Says Reynard: "that the world may know
Your skill and knowledge, pray begin
Of those foul spots to clear your skin:
For while you look so sick and pale,
To vend your drugs you'll ne'er prevail."

THE APE AND HER YOUNG ONES.

An ape had cubs; one much she lov'd,
The other small affection prov'd.
Alarm'd, she hears the hunter's cries;
And catching up her darling flies:
Through fear she stumbled o'er some stones
And broke the little favorite's bones;
The other to her back who clung
Uninjured went with her along.

Mothers, beware! the fondl'd child
By too much tenderness is spoil'd;
While those who hardships have endur'd,
To suffer life are best inur'd.

THE FIR TREE AND THE THORN.

The lowly and contented state
Is farthest from the wounds of fate.

A fir tree upon a humble thorn
From his high top look'd down with scorn.
"For loftiest fanes we grow," she said,
"Of us the tallest masts are made,
While thou, poor bramble, canst produce
Nothing of ornament or use."
"Great tree," the modest thorn replied,
"When the sharp axe shall pierce your side,
In vain you then may wish to be
Unsought-for, and unknown like me."

THE ASS IN THE LION'S SKIN.

Fools may on other fools impose;
The sage their real value knows.

An ass once found a lion's skin,
And rolling up himself therein,
From every fold that he came nigh,
Made flocks, and herds, and shepherds fly.
Ranging the country round, at last
He meets his master where he pass'd,
Who long-ears instantly descries
Through his magnificent disguise:
Laying his cudgel on his side,
"Get home, thou stupid fool," he cried:
"With others for a lion pass;
I know thee for an arrant ass."

THE DOG IN THE MANGER.

A mastiff in a stable lay,
Couch'd on a manger full of hay.
When any thing drew near to eat,
He quickly forced it to retreat.
An ox then cried, "detested creature,
How vile is thy malignant nature,
Which will not others let enjoy
That which thou never canst employ!"

THE STAG AND THE VINE.

A stag pursued with horn and hound
In a thick vineyard shelter found.
Soon as he thought the danger past,
He on the vine began to feast.
The huntsman hears the rustling noise,
And through half-eaten leaves descries
His branching horns, the pack recalls,
And merited the creature falls
To his ingratitude a prey.

Those their protectors who betray,
Unpitying, all the world will see
Consign'd to death and infamy.

THE MISCHIEVOUS DOG.

Titles and ribands, bought with shame,
Folly and vice but more proclaim.
A man who own'd a vicious dog,
Upon his collar fix'd a log,
Which the vain cur supposed to be
A note of worth and dignity.
A mastiff saw his foolish pride;
"Puppy," indignantly he cried,
"That thing is put about your neck
Your mischievous designs to check;
And to who see you to declare,
Of what a currish race you are."

THE SICK MAN AND THE PHYSICIAN.

Woe to the land where those who guide,
To please the people's foolish pride,
Persuade them there is nought to dread,
When ruin threatens o'er their head.

A patient, ask'd to tell his pains,
Of thirst and shivering cold complains.
"'Tis very good," the doctor said;
"He has but to remain in bed,
And take the med'cines I shall send,
The thing will soon be at an end."
When next the question was repeated,
The man complain'd he much was heated;
"This," cried the leech, "is better still!"
And thus to each increasing ill,
"That it was going well," he cried,
Till the poor martyr sunk and died.

THE FARMER AND HIS SONS.

Work, work, my boys, with hand and mind!
Your labors you will fruitful find.

A husbandman, about to die,
Call'd on his children to come nigh:
"I leave," he says, "a small estate,
But wherewithal to make it great:
For know, a treasure it contains,
If you to search will take the pains."
He died. The sons dug all the ground,
And there no hidden treasure found;
But so productive was the soil,
The crop by far o'erpaid the toil.
Says one, when they the corn had sold,
"This treasure 'twas our sire foretold!"

THE SWALLOW AND THE BIRDS.

Those who of guides stand most in need,
Are least inclin'd advice to heed.

A travell'd swallow, learn'd and wise,
To all his feather'd neighbors cries:
"See you yon laborers there below;
What is it, think ye, that they sow?
'Tis hemp, my friends; of which are made
The nets that for us all are laid;
The moment yonder men are gone,
Then pick the seeds up one by one."
The gay inhabitants of air
For his precaution little care.
The seedling sprung; again the swallow
Urges his good advice to follow;
Again his counsel they deride.
The plants full grown, and cut, and dried,
Beaten and spun, the nets were made,
And the unwary birds betray'd,
Regretting, in their hapless fate,
Their incredulity too late.

Learn hence the danger to foresee,
Nor wait for their maturity.

THE BOASTING TRAVELLER.

A fellow who abroad had been,
Told marvels he had done and seen:
"When resident at Rhodes," he said,
"A leap of twenty yards he made
Over a barrier ten feet high;
A dozen witnesses were by."
"Come on," says one, at the same table,
"Yon ditch and fence to o'erleap you're able.
They're not, by much, so high or wide;
Here let the experiment be tried.
Suppose yourself at Rhodes, and we
Your faithful witnesses will be."
The man replied, "that he to-day
Was not quite well," and stole away.

Who boast of what they cannot do
Both knavery and folly show.

THE OLD WOMAN AND HER MAIDS.

Better known evils to endure,
Than seek by wrong a doubtful cure.

A thrifty dame her maids awoke
At the first crowing of the cock.
They of such early rising tir'd,
To kill the harmless cock conspir'd.
The dame, to hear him crow in wait,
Next morning lay in bed till eight.
But when she knew the trick they had play'd,
She caused a larum to be made,
And rung it daily in their ears
Two hours before the dawn appears.

INDUSTRY AND SLOTH.

Insidious sloth her object gains,
If but a hearing she obtains.

A youth ask'd why so long in bed?
"I listen to a cause," he said;
"As soon as I unclose my eyes.
First industry excites to rise."
"Up, up," she says, "to meet the sun,
Your task of yesterday's undone!"
"Lie still," cries sloth, "it is not warm,
An hour's more sleep can do no harm;
You will have time your work to do,
And leisure for amusement too."

THE SHEPHERD TURNED MERCHANT.

Fair weather sailors, keep at home,
For be assur'd the storm will come.

A shepherd of an inland breed
Brought to the coast his flocks to feed;
The beauty of a summer sea,
A merchant tempted him to be.
He sold his sheep, and with the sale
Purchas'd of dates an ample bale.
He sail'd; a furious tempest rose;
Into the sea his dates he throws;
And swimming from the bark to land,
Arrives half dead upon the strand.
To one, soon afterwards who stood
Pleas'd with the calmness of the flood,
"Aye, aye," the simple shepherd said
"With dates again it would be fed."

THE SPENDTHRIFT AND THE
SWALLOW.

A fool who all had thrown away,
When wandering pennyless one day,
Perceived a swallow. "Ho," says he,
"Summer is come at last I see!"
And to a Jew his mantle sold.
Next day it was severely cold:
Starv'd as he walk'd, the bird he found
Frozen to death upon the ground.
"Ah! what a fool was I," he cried,
"When on one swallow I relied!"

Those who too readily believe,
For their credulity may grieve.

THE EAGLE AND THE CROW.

The wise well know their force to weigh,
Nor what they cannot do, essay.

A carrion crow an eagle saw
Seize on a lamb with beak and claw.
Conceiving he could better do,
He pounces on a well fed ewe;
But he and not the sheep was caught;
For when to fly with it he sought,
His feet entangled in the wool,
The shepherd seiz'd the helpless fool.

THE WOLF AND THE SHEPHERD'S
BOY.

In wantonness a shepherd's boy
Alarm'd the neighbor's with his cry;
"The wolf! the wolf!" And when they came,
Of their lost labor made his game.
At last the wolf when there indeed,
His real cries they did not heed;
He and his flock a prey were made,
And for his lies he dearly paid.

Those who are known to have deceiv'd,
When they speak truth, are not believ'd.

THE FOX WITHOUT A TAIL.

Fashions and modes we often see,
Made to conceal deformity:
Those to whom nature has been kind,
Should leave such fopperies behind.

A fox who in a trap was taken,
Resign'd his brush to save his bacon.
Ashamed that all the world should know
His cunning had been cheated so,
To an assembly of the nation
He made the following oration:
"I oft have thought the tails we wear
A troublesome appendage are;
Where's their utility, I pray?
They serve but to obstruct our way.
Nor ornamental do I find,
To drag this ponderous length behind.
For my part, without more debate,
I move our tails we amputate."
"Please, sir, to show yourself behind,"
(Says one to smoke the jest inclin'd,
And who discovered what it was)
"We there perhaps shall see the cause,
Ere we your prudent counsel take,
Why you this curious motion make?"
His bare posteriors when they found,
Loud laughter shook the benches round;
Nor could the fox without a tail
To introduce the mode prevail.

THE MEN AND THE OYSTER.

Any partition better make,
Than _all_ the hungry law should take.

By the sea side two travellers found
A fine large oyster on the ground;
His claim each obstinately lays:
"I saw it first," one eager says;
"I pick'd it up," the other cries;
"Mine"--"Mine is certainly the prize."
They talk'd as usual, loud and long;
And more they reason'd, more were wrong;
Till they a neighboring lawyer see
Passing, and mutually agree
To take him for their referee.
With legal dignity of face,
He heard them both relate the case;
"Your claims are good," then gravely said,
"And a brave lawsuit would have made
Which to prefer I cannot tell,
So each of you must take a shell;
And, as the oyster is but one,
That I myself will swallow down;
To stink it otherwise had lain,
And all your cash been spent in vain;
You're cheaply off; go home content;
And faith the fish was excellent."

THE SHEPHERD AND HIS DOG.

A dog his master so deceiv'd,
He was the best of curs believ'd.
The flock was trusted to his care,
Whene'er the shepherd was not there.
And in the house, a favored guest,
He always fed upon the best.
The treacherous guard his charge betray'd
And on the sheep in secret prey'd.
The master, when the crime was prov'd,
With double indignation mov'd,
About his neck the halter tied
Himself: the dog for mercy cried;
"You let the wolf escape," he said,
"Who much more slaughter oft has made."
"Wretch!" says the man, "the wolf declares
Hostility, and boldly dares;
He has no confidence abused:
But, coward, thou my trust hast used:
Against myself! and on this tree
Without delay shalt hanged be."

THE COUNTRYMAN AND THE
JUSTICE.

The law still lends the readiest aid,
When well her ministers are paid.

A countryman, by power oppress'd,
Seeking to have his wrongs redress'd,
Oft to the justice went in vain;
Admittance he could ne'er obtain,
But still was bid again to come;
"Unwell"--"engag'd"--or "not home!"
The wily rustic took a kid
One day, and in a basket hid;
And when he to the house drew near,
Began to pinch him by the ear,
So that the porter, from the hall,
Might hear the little fatling squall;
The man his master's mind who knew,
Open'd the door and let him through.
The shepherd, laughing as he pass'd,
Says to his kid, "Thy cries at last
An audience for my wrongs obtain;
Thy flesh, perhaps, redress will gain."

THE COCK AND THE FOX.

The world applauds the lucky hit,
When it beholds the biter bit.

A treach'rous fox invited down
A cock, who on a tree had flown.
"Do you not know, my friend," says he,
"Bird, beast, fish, reptile, man agree,
To live henceforth in amity?
Come down and celebrate the day."
"Troth," quoth the cock, "you truly say;
For hounds I see come o'er the dell,
With open mouths, the news to tell."
"Adieu," says Ren. "'Tis best to go;
Those dogs the treaty may not know."

THE BLIND MAN AND THE LAME.

Who kind assistance give and take,
Life's arduous journey best will make.

Two men, one blind, the other lame,
To pass a ford together came.
The stream was rapid, and the way
Obliquely thwart the current lay;
To his companion says the blind,
"Yon winding road I ne'er shall find."
"Nor my poor limbs," the lame replied,
"The current's rapid force abide."
"Come," says the blind, "my loins are strong,
I'll bear you on my back along,
While you to guide me give the word;"
And thus they safely cross'd the ford.

THE MAN AND THE SERPENT.

There's in the world a cursed race,
Of nature so perverse and base,
If from the gallows you should save,
A dangerous enemy you have.

A countryman a serpent found,
Stiffen'd with frost upon the ground,
And took her home; but when the fire
Began new vigor to inspire,
Swelling her neck with angry eyes,
She fills the cot with hissing cries.
The rustic then his axe did take,
"Is this then the return you make?
Is this your gratitude?" he said,
And knock'd the reptile on the head.

THE TWO STREAMS.

Those who display much dash and din,
Have seldom any thing within.

A weary traveller, one day,
Cross'd o'er a river in his way;
Alarm'd to see the foaming tide
Dashing o'er rocks from side to side,
Nevertheless, his course to keep,
He ventur'd in with trembling step;
And found the water neither deep,
Nor footing bad; and got well o'er.
When he had travell'd some leagues more,
He to another river came,
That smoothly flowed, a silent stream:
This he thought easily to pass;
But ere he in the middle was,
He plunged into a gulf profound,
And for his feet no bottom found;
But, forced to swim with all his might,
Got to the shore in piteous plight.

THE SOT AND HIS WIFE.

Inveterate sin is seldom cur'd.

A wife had long a sot endur'd,
Who all his time in taverns spent,
While his affairs in ruin went.
Once as insensible he lay,
She dress'd him in a corpse's array,
And with the undertaker's aid,
Into a burying vault convey'd.
The fumes dispersed, the man awakes;
All for reality he takes.
When by the glimmering of a lamp
He saw his mansion drear and damp,
Reflecting how his life had pass'd,
A forced repentance came at last.
The wife, with suited voice and dress,
Presented an infernal mess:
"Good Trap, pray take away your meat;
I have no appetite to eat,"
He cried, "but faith I'm devilish dry:
Can't you a bowl of wine supply?"
The woman, seeing all was vain,
Restor'd him to his casks again:
Consol'd with certainty, that he
Ere long a real corpse must be.

THE FARMER AND HIS QUARRELSOME
SONS.

Three sons an honest farmer had;
And it so happen'd, ne'er a lad
Could with the other two agree;
All quarrelling perpetually.
Their time in idle contest spent,
Garden and farm to ruin went;
And the good farmer and his wife
Led but a miserable life.
One day as this unhappy sire
Sat musing by his evening fire,
He saw some twigs in bundles stand,
Tied for the basket-maker's hand.
Taking up one: "My boys," says he,
"Which is the strongest, let me see;
He who this bundle breaks in twain,
The preference, and this prize shall gain,"
(Showing a pair of Sunday shoes.)
The rivals every effort use
In vain. Their utmost force when tried,
The father took the twigs untied,
And giving to them one by one,
The work immediately was done.
"Yon twigs," he says, "that broken lie,
This useful lesson may supply:
That those in amity who live,
And succor to each other give,
Double their forces to resist
Oppression, and their work assist."

THE FIG TREE AND THE FLOWERING
SHRUB.

Flowers which many leaves display,
In fruitless beauty fade away.

Cries one of these, with saucy sneer,
To a plain fig-tree growing near,
"How comes it, honest friend, that thou
Dost in the spring no blossoms show?"
Says he, "I keep them out of view,
For fear I should resemble you,
And in the autumn nought produce
Of permanence and solid use."

Who soon and much essay to shine,
May dread a premature decline.

THE FARMER AND THE LANDLORD.

A farmer of an honest fame,
One morning to his landlord came:
"Alas, my lord," he weeping said,
"Gored by my bull, your ox is dead.
What must be done?" "The case is plain,"
Replies the lord; "the creature slain,
The owner of the bull must pay;
Let it be done without delay."
"Heav'n give your worship long to live!
I hope you will a good one give,
For mine was good!" "How! your's, my friend?
Let me your story comprehend:
Your bull, you say, my ox has gored?"
"Forgive me the mistake, my lord,
In my confusion I have made;
Mine was the ox that must be paid;
But 'tis all one--what's just for me
The same must for your worship be:
I'll tell the steward what you say."
"Not yet--we'll think of it to-day.
Further inquiry must be had;
Perhaps your fences were but bad;
Perhaps--but come again to-morrow."
The honest laborer saw with sorrow,
That justice wears a different face,
When for themselves men put the case.

THE SCHOOL-BOY AND THE
MONITOR.

At play on Thames's verdant side
A school boy fell into the tide,
Where providentially there stood
A willow, bending o'er the flood.
Buoy'd on its branch, he floating lay,
The monitor pass'd by that way.
The lad entreats his life to save:
The Don replies with aspect grave,
"Sirrah, what business had you there?
How vain is all our watchful care!
You never heed a word we say;
Your disobedience you shall pay!"
"First," says the boy, "pray stretch your hand:
I'll hear you when I come to land."

This is for those, with vain parade
Who give advice, instead of aid.

THE MILLER AND HIS ASS.

A rustic bringing to the fair
An ass, that he might show him there,
Sleek and well looking let him trot;
He followed with his son on foot.
The first they met upon the road,
At our pedestrians laugh'd loud,
"Look at those two legged asses," cried,
"Who trudge on foot when they might ride!"
The father with the hint complies:
Makes the boy mount. Now other cries
Assail their ears; by graybeards blam'd;
"Sirrah, you ought to be asham'd
To ride and let your father walk!"
Again he listened to their talk.
The sire got up, the youth got down;
When passing through a country town,
At every door the mothers said,
"A murrain light on thy old head!
Hast thou no bowels for thy kind?
At least take up the lad behind."
This done they next were thus address'd:
"Two lubbers on a little beast?
They fitter are to carry him!"
Complying with this senseless whim,
Upon a pole his feet in air,
The ass they on their shoulders bear.
Now laughing shouts spread far and wide.
The ass's ligatures untied,
"Proceed, my son," then said the man:
"To please the world, do all we can,
Since 'tis impossible, you see,
To please ourselves content we'll be."

THE DREAMER AND HIS SON.

Mortals bring down upon their head
The very miseries most they dread.

The only son of a rich knight
In hunting daily took delight.
The father living in alarm,
Lest he should come to any harm,
Dream'd that he saw him on the ground,
Rent with the lion's fatal wound.
The youth, allow'd to hunt no more,
Impatiently confinement bore.
Remarking, one unlucky day,
In the fine chamber where he lay,
A lion painted on the wall,
"Thou art," he cried, "the cause of all."
With idle rage the wall he struck,
And in his hand an iron stuck,
Which piercing bones and sinews through,
Fester'd and then a gangrene grew.
And thus the father's ill-tim'd care
Deprived him of his son and heir.

THE OLD MAN AND DEATH.

Though life be welcome to the wise,
Death cannot take him by surprise;
Aware that every day and hour
He holds but at the tyrant's power,
That beauty, talents, worth, are vain.
A moment's respite to obtain.
Nothing more known, and yet how rare
It is with courage to prepare
For this inevitable day!
All hope a little more delay.

One who had suffer'd many a year,
And to a century drew near,
At last complain'd, that unawares
Death came, unsettled his affairs:
"My will is not completely made;
A little time," he trembling said,
"A little longer let me live;
Some warning 'tis but fair to give!
My grandson is expected home;
At least pray, let the doctor come."
"Poor helpless driveller!" Death replied,
"Ten years ago thou should'st have died!
Thy friends, thy foes, thyself outliv'd:
Almost an age thou hast surviv'd:
Some who their day had scarce begun.
Others beneath their noon-tide sun--
Time's deepest lines engrave thy brow,
And dost thou hesitate to go?
Idiot, what warning would'st thou have?
One foot already in the grave:
Sight, hearing, feeling, day by day,
Sunk gradual in a long decay.
I blame myself for my neglect;
Thou'st not a moment to expect!"

When failing nature warns, the sage
Sees death a refuge from old age;
And rising from life's lengthened feast,
Willing retires, a sated guest.

THE PAINTER.

When candid critics deign to blame
Their index points the road to fame,
But when dull fools your works admire,
Throw them at once into the fire.

In Rome there dwelt, in days of yore,
A painter deep in graphic lore.
His touch was firm, his outline true,
And every rule full well he knew.
A Mars he painted, meant to show
How far his learned skill could go.
The work complete, he call'd a friend,
On whose good taste he could depend.
The friend was honest, spoke his thought,
And fairly pointed out the fault,
"That overwork'd in every part,
It show'd too much laborious art."
The painter argued for his rules,
And cited maxims from the schools;
Still the judicious critic held
The labor should be more conceal'd.
While they disputed on his stricture,
A coxcomb came to see the picture:
Entering, he cries, "Good heavens, how fine!
The piece, I swear, is quite divine!
The sword, the knot, the belt, the leather,
The steel, the gold, the silk, the feather,
Are perfect nature, all together!"
The painter, reddening with despite,
Whispers, "My friend, by Jove, you're right.
'Tis not enough our art to know,
Till less of it we learn to show;
My picture must be done again
I see, to please discerning men."

THE COBBLER AND THE NABOB.

A cobbler, who had fix'd his stall
Against a nabob's palace wall,
Work'd merrily as others play,
And sung and whistled all the day.
A prey to many an anxious care,
Less merry was the lord, by far;
And often in the night he thought
It hard, sleep was not to be bought:
And if tow'rds morn he got a doze,
The cobbler troubled his repose.
One day he bid the man attend--
And, "Well," says he, "my honest friend,
How is it that so well you thrive?
You seem the happiest man alive.
Pray, what may be the profit clear,
That you can earn within the year?"
"What in a twelvemonth I can earn,
My lord, was never my concern;
'Tis quite enough," the cobbler said,
"If I can gain my daily bread."
"Take then this note"--'twas twenty pound;
"But sing not with so shrill a sound,
Good man," the generous nabob cries,
"When early to your work you rise;
For then I want to close my eyes."
Delighted to his stall he went:
But now he first felt discontent;
All day he neither work'd nor ate,
For thinking of his happy fate.
At night, when he retir'd to bed,
He plac'd the note beneath his head.
But could not sleep a single wink,
What he should do with it, to think;
And every little noise he heard,
That folks were come to rob him, fear'd.
Living in constant dread to all,
Who did but look towards his stall,
So lean and sallow he was grown,
The man was hardly to be known.
At last he begg'd the lord to see:
"Take back your present, sir," said he,
"Riches, I find, are not for me.
To-morrow I my song renew;
Not less my gratitude to you:
And care henceforward I will take,
My chaunts your slumber do not break."

THE HORSE AND HIS RIDER.

A man a palfrey long possess'd,
A quiet, serviceable beast;
Spavin'd, indeed, and somewhat blind,
But still his way he well could find;
And if he stumbled now and then,
Was soon upon his feet again.
In short, for many a year, the pack
Had borne him safely on his back.
Till riding out one fatal day,
He overheard some coxcombs say,
"For such a man, 'tis quite a shame,
To mount a horse old, blind, and lame."
"Aye," replied one, "I know a steed
Would nobly carry him indeed;
Young, vigorous, beautiful, and sound;
His like is nowhere to be found."
In evil hour an ear he lent,
To view this boasted courser went:
Unwary on his back he got,
And tried to put him on a trot;
He rear'd and plung'd, and leap'd about,
Till from his seat he shook him out,
Then kicking, pitch'd him o'er his head,
And laid him on the pavement dead.
The vicious creature left at large,
On all his fury would discharge;
This from behind his heels surprise,
Trod under foot, that sprawling lies:
Another, who would seize the reins,
Is bit and mangled for his pains.
But want of nourishment and rest
Will tame at last the fiercest beast;
And rage itself suspends its course,
Exhausted by its proper force.
Light'ning no more his eyes inspire,
No more his nostrils snorted fire;
At bay he stood, fatigu'd and lank,
With flagging ears, and beating flank.
An active jockey, stout and able,
Contracts to bring him to the stable;
Soothes, and his neck begins to pat,
And the corn rattles in his hat;
By hunger drawn, repell'd by fear,
The courser neighs, retires, comes near;
Lur'd with the smell, begins to eat.
The jockey vaulted in the seat:
With vigorous hand the bridle plied,
And stuck the rowels in his side.
Some bounds and curvets still he made,
But soon submissively obey'd.
The horseman who such skill had shown,
Resolv'd to keep him for his own:
Aware that constant work alone
Can keep this wicked spirit down
He night and day is on his back,
To lead him to some new attack,
No road is safe, nor far nor near,
This highwayman is every where.

THE GOOD MINISTER.

An honest minister disgrac'd,
(Such are not easily replac'd,)
Found the sweet leisure in his fields,
To virtuous minds retirement yields.
The king, who had his foes believ'd,
The loss of him ere long perceiv'd.
To bring him back again intent,
To his retreat alone he went:
"My friend, you must return with me,"
He said, "your value now I see."
"Forgive me," the Recluse replied;
"Here I determine to abide.
By sad experience well I know,
Were I to court again to go,
And all my best endeavors do,
To serve my country, sir, and you,
Art and intrigue so much prevail,
Again I certainly should fail;
Against your will and approbation,
And the good wishes of the nation,
You'd find yourself compell'd to yield,
And I once more must quit the field."

The honest man, who will not bend
To circumstance, or condescend
To pay his court to knave or fool,
Will never long a nation rule.

THE SWAN AND THE COOK.

A man once had a swan and goose
  Among his birds and beasts.
The one was destined for a pet,
  The other for a feast.
Sometimes you saw them sailing
  Gracefully on the current, side by side,
Sometimes they played a game of tag,
  Or plunged into the tide.
One day the master ordered
  The cook to kill the goose,
And roast it for his dinner;
  It was fat and fit for use.
But the cook had taken a drop too much,
  And it had gone to his head;
So when he went out for the goose
  He took the swan instead.
He seized the swan fast by the throat,
  And would have kill'd it soon:
But the bird saw he was to die,
  And he his throat did tune,
And warbled out his farewell lay.
  The cook straight dropped his knife
In great surprise, "what! what!" cried he,
  "Shall I take the life
Of a musical bird like this?
  No, no! it must not be.
So to the garden he shall go back
  And ne'er be kill'd by me."

THE LYNX AND THE MOLE.

A lynx once met by chance a mole,
Just emerging from his hole.
The lynx with penetrating eye
The beauties of the place did spy,
And asked the mole to take a share
In the fine prospect, rich and rare.
"I've seldom found so good a place.
From this small hill you see a space
Extended far beneath your view,
I like it much; pray do not you?
See now the sun begins to rise,
And with crimson tints the skies.
It spreads all round its genial heat,
And nature now enjoys a treat."
"Well, well!" the mole aloud did cry
"You may see this and more, but I
Can only now before me see,
A very heavy mist." "Truly,
Now," said the lynx, "I clearly see
The difference 'twixt you and me.
My eyes see with perception bright
While your's are always dark as night.
Go to your hold beneath the ground,
While I will range the forest round."

THE OLD CAT AND THE YOUNG
MOUSE.

A young mouse of little experience,
Thought to soften an old cat,
And besought her clemency,
By asking for his life at her expense.
Said he, "A mouse, or e'en a rat,
Is not a great charge on the house;
And I shall not starve out the host.
Besides I seldom quit my post,
And when I do a grain of corn
Has served me since I first was born.
Now I am thin, pray let me be,
I'll serve your children yet, you'll see."
Thus to the cat spoke the poor mouse.
The other answered, "You mistake,
When unto me this tone you take;
You might as well talk to the deaf,
As to so old a cat as I,
And through your tricks I spy,
Die! you can go and chatter to the fates,
My children will be fed on better cates."

MORAL.

Youth is sanguine, and hopes for all:
Old age is pitiless; so says our moral.

THE TWO FRIENDS.

Two real friends lived in Monomotapa,
All that belonged to one was for the other,
And each was unto each a brother.
The people of that country, thus,
Make better friends than among us.
One night when fast asleep,
  They each were sound reposing,
The eldest darted from his couch,
  And stopped the other's dozing.
He runs to see his friend,
Awakes the slaves, and in the end,
Even his friend is quite alarmed,
And goes to seek the other,
With sword and purse. "My brother,
What can the matter be?
Here I am armed, you see,
Ready with sword to fight for you,
And here is money ready too,
If you have lost in play.
You're even welcome to my handsome slave,
With jet black hair, and eyes so grave."
"No!" said the other, "I need naught,
But ere I slept to-night, I thought,
Being in a trance, that you were sad,
And as the thought nigh drove me mad,
I hurried to your tent,
And found you sleeping quite content."

MORAL.

Which of the two best loved the other?
Here is a thing to ponder on.
A true friend is a precious thing,
And all to aid you he will bring,
But with excess of love the other
In dreams was thinking of his brother.

THE SICK STAG.

In a land where stags are many,
One fell sick, and not any
Of all his friends, delayed to come,
To offer aid and consolation,
In his sorrowful situation.
Said he, "My friends, pray let me die
In the right way, nor shed such tears."
Not at all, the consolers,
With many a tear, and many a sigh,
Had come resolved by him to lie;
And when they left they helped themselves
Upon his lands, the greedy elves!
And drank from out his brook,
And every one of them such suppers took,
That when the stag revived,
He found his meals reduced;
So that while his friends had thrived,
He had to fast or die of hunger.

THE FOREST AND THE WOODMAN.

A woodman had broken or misplaced
The wooden handle of his axe,
This loss could not be well replaced.
So master woodman humbly prayed
From all the trees a single branch,
And promised to go elsewhere when he made
Again his livelihood,
And he would touch nor oak nor pine.
The trees which were all very good
Furnished for him new arms,
And soon commenced all their alarms,
And their regret. The axe was mended.
And his repentance all was ended.
The miserable wretch but used it,
E'en as he had before abused it,
By felling down the forest trees,
Which groaned in spirit, and which died,
By arms they had themselves supplied.

MORAL.

This is the way the world goes on,
We use our benefits against our benefactors:
I am tired of speaking thereupon,
Till we obtain our wants, we are good actors.

THE ELEPHANT AND THE MONKEY
OF JUPITER.

Formerly the elephant and the rhinoceros
Disputing on the light of empire
Resolved to end the combat thus--
By fighting to their heart's desire.
The day was fixed, when it was heard,
That the monkey of Sire Jupiter
Had been seen in the air,
Poised on a cloud like any bird.
The elephant was quite convinced
That to arrange the new election,
An interest the god evinced,
And felt for him a great affection,
He went to see the monkey's highness,
Expecting him to speak about the fight,
But not a word said monkey.
At this sight,
The elephant perceived that he must speak himself,
And so began: "Sire Jupiter," said he,
"Between rhinoceros and me will see
A royal combat of legation;
A tournament for all the nation.
I suppose you have already heard
This news!" Said monkey, "Not a word."
The elephant ashamed, and quite surprised,
Looked on the monkey with astonished eyes.
Said monkey, "In celestial place,
A fly or leopard are of equal race."
"Was it not then because of us,"
Said elephant, "that you descended?"
"Nay," said the monkey, quite offended.
"I left the heavens to share a grain of corn
Among some ants, nor knew that you were born.
We have the care of mortal things;
But all are equals in our eyes,
And at your talk I feel surprise."

THE WOODCUTTER AND DEATH.

A woodman was toiling, all covered with dust,
But reach home with his faggot ere night he must,
Panting and weary he walks quite slow,
How to get home he does not know.
At last quite exhausted with toil and trouble,
With the weight of the burden and his years, bent double.
He puts down his faggot, and thinks of his pains,
What is his work, and what are his gains,
How since he came into this weary world,
By the wheels of blind fortune around he's been twirled.
Was he not poor, a wood cutter, at best,
Oft without bread, always without rest.
He thinks of his wife, his children, his taxes,
At last quite warm with the subject he waxes.
He calls on death; who comes without delay,
The woodman, in terror, knows not what to say.
Death asks what to do the man wishes he should.
"Oh, help me," he said, "with this faggot of wood.
My poor bones ache, and my limbs they crack.
So help me to put it upon my back."

THE RAT AND THE OYSTER.

A rat who lived in the field,
  A rat of little wit,
Once grew tired of his father's house,
  And quietly left it.
He left the field, the grain and wheat,
  Set out to travel, left his hole,
And just as soon as he was out,
  "How large and spacious on the whole
Is this great country spread about.
Here are the Apeninnes, and there Caucasus."
The smallest mole hill is a mountain.
At the end of some days our traveller arrives
At a certain canton where every oyster thrives,
And our famed traveller turned very pale,
Thinking he saw great vessels setting sail
"Mercy," said he, "My father was a dunce,
He did not dare to travel even once,
While I have seen already,
The maritime empire,
And travelled to my heart's desire."
From a certain learn'd man,
The rat had heard of such things,
And thinks he has seen all he can.
Among the many oysters closed,
There was one open, which reposed,
Mouth gaping, in the sun,
The learned, travelled man,
The rat, approached, thinking to make
An excellent repast, and began to take
A bite at the fine oyster, plump and fat,
Whereupon closing on our rat,
The oyster caught him tight
And held him with all its might.

MORAL.

This fable goes to show,
That those mistake,
Who think that all they know:
When knowing nothing of the world,
Their giddy brain is quickly whirled.
And hence this moral let us make,
That he is caught, who thinks to take.

THE PHYSICIANS.

Dr. So-much-the-worse went out to see
A patient sick as one could be.
His brother So-much-the-better,
Having received an urgent letter,
Came also the sick man to visit.
So-much-the-worse declared he'd die,
So-much-the-better asked him why.
And while their plans they thus discourse,
The sick man died, _so much the worse_!
So-much-the-better now declared,
That if the sick man had not despaired,
He would have lived. So-much-the-worse
Said, "I was right, agree with me,
Our patient's dead, as you can see."

MORAL.

There's wisdom in the saying, by my troth,
Too many cooks will spoil the broth.

THE MOUNTAIN IN LABOR.

A mountain thought to be in labor,
Made such a horrid noise,
That round it each stranger came and neighbor,
Thinking the end of all this noise would be
A city, quite as large as three.
Having drawn all the province round,
The mountain from a little mound,
Let out a mouse.

MORAL.

When I think upon this fable,
Of which the narration is false,
And the sense true;
It puts me much in mind
Of authors not a few,
Who boast that they are able
To write on any subject as they please,
And after all--do nothing.

THE CAT METAMORPHOSED INTO
A WOMAN.

A man was passionately fond of his cat,
He thought she was pretty, and sleek, and all that;
And she purred in the softest tone,
He wished to make her his own.
This man by prayers, by tears,
  By sorcery and charms,
Changed pussy to a woman fair,
  And took her in his arms.
But in the wainscot soon a rat
  Made itself manifest,
And very soon the pussy cat,
  Could still no longer rest.
Her foolish husband who believed
  That nothing had of cat remained,
And as his wife had her received--
  Was, now, I warrant, somewhat pained.
Next time the vermin came,
Pussy was surer of her game--
  For having changed her face,
The mice not frightened,
  Did not change their pace--
And the astonished spouse
  Was very glad--
To change her back--
  And was no more cat-mad.

MORAL.

What in the bone is born,
  Will in the flesh remain,
Both night and morn,
  And ne'er come out again.

THE FROG AND THE RAT.

He who another thinks to injure,
May in the end destroy himself.

A rat who fed exceeding well,
Was by a frog invited out to dine;
"The voyage," said froggy, "will be quickly made,
If you will tie your foot to mine."
Frog vaunted the delight of bathing,
Praised the varieties they'd met upon the way,
And when the rat consented to be tied,
Attempted to bear him away.
The rat half drowned resisted all he could.
The frog, imaged the dinner he would make;
Suddenly, flying from a neighboring wood,
A hawk appeared, and quickly did he take
Both of the combatants up in his bill,
Before they e'en had time to make their will;
And quite delighted did the greedy sinner
Make off of fish and flesh a hearty dinner.
For in the hawk's dominions, fast days
Are never kept.
Now if the frog had acted as he ought,
And had not tried to dine off the poor rat,
They would not both have perished,
To make fat,
A pampered hawk;
And master rat,
Had he not been so curious about
Aquatic government,
Had from the scrape got safely out.

MORAL.

A scheme or a conspiracy,
Be it all plotted well
As safe, 'twould seem as it could be,
And sure of all success,
May, none the less,
Entirely fail,
And grand conspirators,
And all bewail,
The day that set them scheming.

THE LION AND THE FLY.

A lion by a gad-fly worried,
Half maddened by his sting,
Exclaimed, "Be off, vile fly--
Mean, pitiful, base thing!"
After the fly had ended his repast,
Fully exhausted feels the beast at last,
And roared so that he shook the earth,
While the victorious fly
Met in the spider's web his destiny.

MORAL.

Two morals draw I from this tale:
  First, We should fear the smallest enemy;
And second, We may escape great perils,
  And from a trifling cause may die.

THE TWO MULES.

Two mules went travelling on their way,
  One with a sack of corn;
The other with gold and bells so gay,
  Most gaily tripped along.
Proud of so rich a load,
  He kept the bells a ringing--
And was so proud, had he known how
  He would have commenced singing.
Soon some robbers rude appeared,
  Who stopped this mule upon his road,
And very soon they had him cleared
  Of all his weight of precious gold.
Falling beneath their blows, "I die,"
  The expiring trotter cried,
"Had you been," said the other,
  "Low as I, you would not thus have died."

Be moderate when you are high,
Nor glory o'er the passers by.

JUPITER AND THE FARMER.

Jupiter had a farm to let,
Mercury advertised it, and people came,
Made offers, listened, all the same,
Made some objection.
One declared the land
Was rough and dry,
And full of sand.
One had this reason, one had that,
Until at last a man appeared,
Who said he'd try to farm it, agreed that
He might have any weather that he chose.

Behold! as soon as he but yawns, it blows
Or rains, or is quite clear.
His neighbors, even the most near,
Are not affected by these changes.
In usual route, their weather ranges;
They have good crops,
But he had none.
At last when tired, he began
Complaining unto Jupiter.
The next year the same thing,
Changes of weather he can bring--
And the neighbors no more
Than the Americans,
Are troubled by the farming
Of his lands.
At last tired out, with all his strife in vain,
He yields his power to the God of rain;
Acknowledging, that all along
The god did right,
And he did wrong.

MORAL.

Let us conclude that Providence
For man ordains much better than we can.

THE COCK, THE CAT, AND THE
LITTLE MOUSE.

A young mouse, who had nothing seen,
Was nearly caught; You shall hear how
He told his mother the adventure--
He said, "Pray, listen, now:
I started out to frolic at a venture,
When two fine animals appeared
Before my eyes,
And filled me with surprise.
One was soft, benign, and sweet,
The other, turbulent, and full of inquietude,
Had a loud voice, piercing and rude,
And on his head a piece of flesh.
A sort of arm raised him up in the air,
As though to fly out of a mesh--
His tail was spread out like a fan."
Now it was a cock of which our little mouse,
Made to his mother this fine picture,
Describing him like an enthusiast.
"He beat," said he, "his flanks,
With his two arms,
Making such a noise and such a din,
That, frightened half to death,
I hurried in.
Although I pique myself upon my courage
And heartily I cursed him in my heart,
For but for him, I'd taken part,
In conversation with the gentle creature,
Who my advances would encourage.
She is velvety, like us, with a long tail,
A modest look, and sparkling eyes,
And is much like a rat. She spies
The objects round her. I turned pale
On hearing the other creature's din,
Or else I should have asked her in."
"My child," said the mother, "this last was a cat,
An enemy of every mouse and rat.
The other a cock, whom do not fear,
Perhaps we may dine on him here."

Take care, whatever they may seem,
Of judging people by their mien.

THE MONKEY.

The animals, on the death of the lion,
  During his life, prince of the country,
Resolved to elect a king to try on
  The regal crown, and chose a monkey.
Because after the animals had all
Tried on the regal crown, or let it fall,
Because their heads were all too big,
Or too small, too horned, or too thick,
The monkey slipped through it;
And with it cut up many a trick,
Which they all thought refined,
And chose him with one mind.
Only the fox regretted the election,
And swore to reign in his defection.
He came and made his compliment;
"Sire," said he, "I know a treasure meant
For your high majesty. I will show
The spot where it lies hid."
The monkey went at Reynard's bid--
And was caught in a trap.
The fox exclaimed,
"How do you think to govern us,
When, after all, with all your fuss,
You cannot well, do what you may,
Keep e'en yourself out of harm's way."
The animals agreed,
That royal power suits very few indeed.

THE HORSE AND THE ASS.

An ass accompanied by a horse uncourteous,
Who only had his harness on his back;
And the poor jackass staggered
'Neath the load of vegetable and a pack;
He begged the horse to help him,
If he could--
But not a single bit,
The other would.
"I ask," said the poor beast,
"A little pity--
Help me at least,
To reach the city."
The horse refused,
And got his due,
For the ass died.
The farmer's man
Stripped off the skin of honest Ben,
And made the horse, whom they espied,
Drag on the skin and the cart beside.

MORAL.

'Tis wise to lend our aid
  To others in distress,
We often thus are made
  The means of happiness.
The churlish, unkind man
  His neighbor's death may cause,
And have to help his family,
  Through taxes and the laws.

THE ASTROLOGER WHO FELL
INTO A WELL.

An astrologer, of high ambition,
While star-gazing fell down
Into a well. "Sage gentleman,"
Remarked the people of the town,
"How did you think to read the stars, old man,
When you cannot preserve your own position."
This adventure in itself, without going further,
Might serve as a lesson, to most of mankind,
For of us mortals, a certain part inclines,
To the belief, that, with the help of mind,
The book of Destiny may easily be read,
But this book, by Homer and his disciples sung,
What is it called but _Chance_, by ancients,
And by us Christians named Providence instead.
Now in Chance there can no science be,
Or why should it be called by them _Chance_--
And things uncertain, who knows in advance?
If all depends upon the fixed decree,
Of Him who does all things, and nothing does unwisely.
How should we read his will,
And know that which from us he would conceal?
Wherefore watch the stars so nicely,
To know how to avoid inevitable woe;
Or how, in future times, our fate will go;
To make us, in the midst of pleasure, sad,
Or with predicted evil, drive us mad,
Convert all blessings into curses dire?
Is this the knowledge to which we aspire,
Is it an error or a crime thus to believe
That future destiny can thus be known?
In place of star-gazing above our head,
Let us confide ourselves to the Great One.
The firmament exists, the stars go on their way,
And the sun shines upon us every day;
And every day, the day is lost in night,
Without our knowing aught else from the sight.
That the seasons come, the crops are ripe,
And in what wood we should look out for snipe,
And some few other things, but for the change
Of day to night, by which the world doth range,
It has not aught to do with Destiny.
Quacks, and ye compilers of horoscopes,
Quit all the courts of princes in Europe,
And take with you all mischief makers

You deserve belief no more than they do.

MORAL.

This astrologer in the well,
Resembles all of his false art,
Who while they are in danger, dream
That in the stars, they read the happiest theme.

THE ANIMALS SICK WITH THE
PLAGUE.

A scourge which spread terror,
Invented by heaven to punish earth--
The plague (if to name it be no error)
Was making every animal
To curse his birth.
In one day it might have enriched Acheron,
And upon beasts made busy war.
Amongst them all there was not one,
But, sick and ailing, was complaining sore;
All did not die, but each was ill--
Not one strove now to eat his fill,
No meat excited them to taste,
Nor did the wolves again lay waste,
The innocent prey.
Even the doves fled from each other,
And cooed no more the live-long day.
The lion held war counsel--"My brother,"
Said he, addressing each in turn,
"I think that heaven hath allowed
This punishment on us to fall
For the sins we have disavowed.
Now I for one will confess all,
And let him who is most to blame,
Be slaughtered in the others' name.
Perhaps he may obtain a common cure,
For history tells us that in like cases,
The guilty die in others' places;
Let us not then be false to Nature,
Let us confess our faults--in fine
I will the first acknowledge mine;
And I avow, that oft I keep
A serious tax on harmless sheep.
What had they done,
In naught offended--
Yet I their quiet lives have ended.
Sometimes, with sorrow be it heard,
I e'en have eaten the shepherd,
And I acknowledge all--
And I will die like a quiet bird--
If my death keep you from your fall.
It must be hoped now in all justice,
That he who is most guilty perish."
"Sire," said the fox, "you are too good a king
To die for any trivial thing;
Your simples are too nice.
Eat sheep, and why not?
Is it a sin? is it a vice?
No, sire, you did them honor;
And as for shepherds, I desire,
That over us their false empire
Should cease, and we have all we want
Of sheep and fleece."
So said the fox, flatterers applaud,
The tiger, bear, and other powers they laud,
Even for their most violent offence.
All quarrelsome people,
Down to the mastiffs,
Were little saints.
But when the donkey's turn came on,
They heard him with many ifs.
He said, "I now remember
That by a monk's garden passing,
(It was late in December,
And my strength soon faints,)
I ate a leaf of some dry plant,
And e'en now I with terror pant."
They seized upon him and devoured,
And said he was the cause
Of heaven's anger being lowered.

With interested judges, _right_
Is always on the side of _might_.

THE CANDLE.

It was in the home of the Olympian gods,
That bees first lodged, 'tis said,
On Mount Hymettus; and thitherwards
Came zephyrs with light tread.
When from the hives, the honey,
Had all been taken out,
As there remained naught but wax,
Some candles were, for money,
Carefully made and sold in packs.
One of these candles on a certain day
Seeing that clay by fire was turned to brick,
Thought he could harden his body the same;
And getting near the fire to try the trick,
This new Empedocles to flame condemned
Soon found of his philosophy the end.

THE HOG, THE GOAT, AND THE
SHEEP.

A goat, a sheep, and a fat hog,
On the same cart were bound for the fair.
They lay as quietly as any log,
But were not seeking their amusement there.
They were to be sold, so says the story.
The carter, who his business knows,
Don't take them into town to see the _shows_.
Dame porker was inclined to squeal,
As though the butcher's knife she 'gan to feel.
Her grunts, and squeals, and cries
Were loud enough to deafen one,
The other animals more wise,
And better tempered, with surprise
Exclaimed, "have done!"
The carter to the porker turned,
"Where have you manners learned,
Why stun us all? Do you not see
That you're the noisiest of the three?
That sheep says not a word,
Nor can the young goat's voice be heard."
"But," said the hog, "they both are fools.
If like me they knew their fate,
They'd halloo out at greater rate,
The goat will only lose her milk,
The sheep his wool, but here, poor me,
I'm to be eaten, and know my destiny."
The porker was quite right,
But hallooing with all her might,
Was all too late,
And could not alter her sad fate.

THE DELICATE HERON.

By the bank of a river,
  A heron walked out,
And in it were sporting,
  Pike, mackerel and trout.

Now these fish with great ease,
  Our bird might have caught,
But I'll wait till I'm hungry
  The silly bird thought.

At last came his appetite,
  "Now I'll eat," the bird cries,
And some tench from the bottom,
  Just then he saw rise.

"But these are not good enough
  At this time of day,"
And he waited for better
  Till all swam away.

At eve almost starved
  When all other means fail,
He was right glad to sup
  On a poor little snail.

THE BLACKAMOOR AND HER
MISTRESS.

A foolish young lady,
  Took one of her maids,
Who chanced to be black
  As the ace of spades,
And said she'd have her washed white,
  By the other maids;
She was put in a tub,
  And with water and towels
Her skin they did rub,
  Through a long summer day till the night;
But the more they did rub her,
  The blacker she got;
And while they did scrub her,
  She mourned her hard lot.
So the maids threw away
  All their labor and care,
And the mistress gave up
  Her fine scheme in despair.

THE BEAR AND THE GARDENER.

A bear and gardener,
  Who mutually tired
Of solitary life,
  And were inspired,
With a warm friendship for each other,
Promised to be to one another,
Excellent friends, and so they were.
As for the death of the poor man
I'll tell you how it happened,
If I can.
The bear watching the gardener in his sleep--
Beholding on his head a fly,
And thinking it bad company,
Took up a stone and dropped it down,
Upon the fly 'tis true,
But broke the gardener's crown.

MORAL.

To make our fortunes or to mend,
A most malignant enemy
Is better than a foolish friend.

THE VULTURES AND THE
PIGEONS.

The wing'd inhabitants of air
Waged on a time a direful war.
Not those, in budding groves who sing,
To usher in the amorous spring;
Nor those, with Venus' car who fly
Through the light clouds and yielding sky
But the rapacious vulture brood,
With crooked beak that thirsts for blood,
And iron fangs. Their war, 'tis said,
For a dog's carrion corse was made.
Shrill shrieks resound from shore to shore;
The earth beneath is sanguin'd o'er;
Versed in the science to destroy,
Address and valor they employ.
'Twould take a hundred tongues to tell,
The heroes from the air who fell.
The dovecote race, a gentle nation,
Made offers of their mediation.
Prudent ambassadors are sent;
The vultures with the terms content,
Agree their guarantee to take,
And armistice and treaty make.
This kind desire to interfere,
Cost the poor peace-makers full dear.
To rapine bred, the ruthless crew,
Nor gratitude nor faith who knew,
On the defenceless pigeons fall,
And shortly had devoured them all.

MORAL.

When tyrants from their quarrels cease,
Some weaker neighbor pays their peace.
His safety in their warfare lies;
Their feuds, not he should compromise.
When Joseph, Frederick, and Kate,
Tired of unprofitable hate,
Their animosities would heel,
They swallowed Poland at a meal.

THE BEAR AND THE BEES.

A bear once rambled from his home,
Chanced through a garden trim to roam,
Where, 'neath the shelter of the trees,
The farmer had his hives of bees.
Bruin loved honey. "Now," said he,
"I'll rob your store-house, Master Bee.
You'll buz, and hum about my ears,
But noise a brave bear never fears."
So saying, bear o'erturns a hive,
And straight the air is all alive,
With angry enemies, who sting
As well as buz; and make bear sing,
A lively tune of growls and roars,
And cover him with smarting sores.

A
CATALOGUE
OF
ENTERTAINING AND INSTRUCTIVE
JUVENILE BOOKS,

PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE BY
C. G. HENDERSON & CO.

AT THEIR
Central Book & Stationery Warehouse,

No. 164 CHESTNUT STREET,
_Corner of Seventh_,
UNDER BARNUM'S MUSEUM.
PHILADELPHIA

MAJA'S ALPHABET.

A
VERY BEAUTIFUL
PICTORIAL ALPHABET,
In Rhyme.

WITH NEW AND ORIGINAL DESIGNS,
BY ABSOLON.

COSTUMES OF AMERICA.

An excellent volume for Young People of both sexes, and well calculated
to awaken an interest in the History of this Continent.

Illustrated with Twenty-four Engravings of Original Costumes. One
volume, square 16mo. Cloth, 50 cents. With Colored Plates, 75 cents.

Little Charley's Christmas Amusements,
OR
WINTER SPORTS DURING THE HOLIDAYS.

With 28 Engravings on Wood.

One volume square 16mo. Cloth binding. Price 25 cents.

Little Charley's Stories of Great Men.

DESCRIPTIVE OF
HEROES, STATESMEN, AND SCHOLARS.

WRITTEN IN AN EASY STYLE FOR BEGINNERS.

One volume square 16mo. Cloth. 25 cents.

CARLO FRANCONI,
AN ITALIAN STORY,
_And other Stories for Young People_.

BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED WITH ENGRAVINGS FROM ORIGINAL DESIGNS
Square 16mo. Cloth Binding.

This is a very touching and entertaining Story for Youth. The Scene
is laid in England, and in Italy, the incidents are of a peculiarly
interesting character.

Little Charley's Games and Sports.

EMBELLISHED WITH 27 ENGRAVINGS OF THE PRIMARY
GAMES FOR LITTLE CHILDREN.

One volume square 16mo. Cloth. 25 cents.

Good Aunt Fanny's Budget

OF
Stories and Legends for Children.

TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN
By Charles A. Dana.

Illustrated with 40 spirited Engravings after designs by Richter.

One vol. quarto. Cloth binding. Price 75 cents.

Little Charley's Picture Alphabet.

A stands for an Army,
How bravely they go,
With flag, drum, and trumpet,
They make a great show.

One volume 16mo. Cloth. Price 25 cents.

Little Charley's Country Walk,

OR
SUMMER RAMBLES
IN THE
FIELDS AND WOODS.

BY LITTLE CHARLEY.

An amusing and instructive book for Children from
six to eight years of age.

Illustrated with 20 Engravings.
16mo. Cloth binding. Price 25 cents.

Little Charley's Rhymes and Jingles.

A NEW COLLECTION OF STORIES IN RHYME
FOR
ALL THE GOOD LITTLE BOYS OF AMERICA.

Embellished with 20 appropriate Wood Designs.

Square 16mo. Cloth. 25 cents.

KRISS KRINGLE'S
RHYME BOOK.

A Lively Book of Rhymes for very little Children.

RICHLY EMBELLISHED WITH PICTURES.

Square 16mo. Paper Covers,  12-1/2 cents.
             Cloth Binding, 25       "

Nut Cracker and Sugar Dolly
A FAIRY TALE.

TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN.
BY CHARLES A. DANA.

SQUARE 16mo. CLOTH AND CLOTH GILT.

This New Fairy Tale is one of the liveliest, most readable, and most
unexceptionable for Children which has ever appeared.

The Complete
BOOK OF NURSERY RHYMES,
FROM
The Creation of the World
TO
THE PRESENT TIME.

One volume 18mo, 252 pages. Cloth Binding.

THRILLING STORIES
OF THE
OCEAN.

For the Entertainment and Instruction of the Young.

This is a neat volume of 300 pages, with numerous Embellishments.
It is written in a familiar, popular style, and is well suited
to the Juvenile, Family or School library.

CLOTH BINDING, PLAIN AND GILT EXTRA.

COSTUMES OF EUROPE.

Beautifully Embellished with 24 Engravings of Original Costumes.
One vol. Square 16mo. Fine Cloth binding, 50 cts; with Col'd
Engravings, 75 cts.

This is a Companion volume to the COSTUMES OF AMERICA, and is equally
instructive as well as pleasing for young readers.

--> Every intelligent Boy should possess a Copy of the Book of Costumes
of Europe and America.Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

           Dandelions, dandelions, shining through the dew,
           Let the Kings have Cloth of Gold, but let _us_ have _you_!

                         CHILD SONGS OF CHEER

                                  BY

                            EVALEEN STEIN

                           ILLUSTRATIONS BY

                          ANTOINETTE INGLIS

                                BOSTON

                      LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.

                           COPYRIGHT, 1918,
                    BY LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

    _Dear Children, all the little words
      These printed pages through,
    They are a flock of little birds
      I bring to sing to you.

    Sometimes they sing of foolish things,
      And other times they try
    To tell their gladness when their wings
      Soar up to seek the sky.

    So, Sweethearts, do but kindly hark!
      If but a sparrow throng,
    Or if among them there's a lark,
      To you their songs belong!_

       *       *       *       *       *

Contents

Up, Little Ones!

Dandelions

Our Puppies

The Lost Balloon

The Circus Procession

May-Baskets

The Picture-Book Giant

Did You Ever?

Decoration Day

Chu-Chu Cars

Fairy Rings

The Firefly

A Rain Song

Fairies

The Little Fir-Trees

The Wren-House

The Baby's Ride

An Indian Raid

The First Sleigh-Ride

Sleepy Time

When Bettie and Anne Went Walking

The Bluebird

The Organ-Grinder

The New Moon

Showery Time

Easter Day

The Sandman

Dandelion Curls

Pop-Corn

The Rash Little Sparrow

What If?

Easter Eggs

The Birds' Bath

November Morning

The Runaway

Lost!

The Queen's Page

Our Tree-Toad

In the Water-World

Who Was It?

Visiting Day

A Valentine to Catherine

Fireflies

The Rainy Day

The First Red-Bird

The Weather-Vane

The Swan

Baby's Baking

A Sure Sign

Another Sure Sign

The Robin's Bath

The Frosted Pane

The First Snow

Grandfather Knows

Sleigh-Bells

The Red-Bird

Wild Beasts

Wherefore Wings?

Basking

With a May-Basket for Baby Agnes

The Little Nest

Christmas Candles

A Song of the Christmas-Tree

Our Kittens

In July

A Valentine to a Little Child

Zip!

A Little Carol

Song

The Three Candles

       *       *       *       *       *

Illustrations

DANDELIONS

Dandelions, dandelions, shining through the dew,
Let the kings have Cloth of Gold, but let _us_
have _you_!                                   _Frontispiece_

FAIRY RINGS

See them dancing, dancing,
While the silver moon
Tips their swiftly glancing
Little silver shoon!

THE BIRDS' BATH

When the sun shines warm and high
Robins cluster round its brink

CHRISTMAS CANDLES

We can tell Him of our love
If we set a light for Him

       *       *       *       *       *

Child Songs of Cheer

UP, LITTLE ONES!

    A robin redbreast, fluting there
      Upon the apple-bough,
    Is telling all the world how fair
      Are apple-blossoms now;
    The honey-dew its sweetness spills
      From cuckoo-cups, and all
    The crocuses and daffodils
      Are drest for festival!

    Such pretty things are to be seen,
      Such pleasant things to do,
    The April earth it is so green,
      The April sky so blue,
    The path from dawn to even-song
      So joyous is to-day,
    Up, little ones! and dance along
      The lilac-scented way!

DANDELIONS

    Hey-a-day-a-day, my dear! Dandelion time!
    Come, and let us make for them a pretty little rhyme!

    See the meadows twinkling now, beautiful and bright
    As the sky when through the blue shine the stars at night!

    Once upon a time, folks say, mighty kings of old
    Met upon a splendid field called "The Cloth of Gold."

    But, we wonder, could it be there was ever seen
    Brighter gold than glitters now in our meadows green?

    Dandelions, dandelions, shining through the dew,
    Let the kings have Cloth of Gold, but let _us_ have _you_!

OUR PUPPIES

    Little ears as soft as silk,
    Little teeth as white as milk,
    Little noses cool and pink,
    Little eyes that blink and blink,
    Little bodies round and fat,
    Little hearts that pit-a-pat,
    Surely prettier puppies never
    Were before nor can be ever!

THE LOST BALLOON

    O dear! my purple toy balloon
    Has flown away! and very soon
    It will be high up as the moon!

    And don't you think the man up there
    Will wonder what it is, and stare?
    Perhaps hell say, "_Well, I declare!_"

    Or, maybe if it chance there are
    Some little boys in yonder star,
    And if it floats away so far,

    Perhaps they'll jump up very high
    And catch the cord as it goes by!
    At any rate I hope they'll try!

THE CIRCUS PROCESSION

    _Oh, hurry! hurry!_ here they come,
    The band in front with the big bass drum
    And blaring bugles,--there they are,
    On golden thrones in a golden car,
    Tooting and fluting, oh, how grand!
                Hi diddle, diddle!
                The fife and the fiddle!
    _Hurrah, hurrah_ for the circus band!

    And the red-plumed horses, oh, see them prance
    And daintily lift their hoofs and dance,
    While beautiful ladies with golden curls
    Are jingling their bridles of gold and pearls,
                And close behind
                Come every kind
    Of animal cages great and small,
    O how I wonder what's in them all!

    Here's one that's open and glaring there
    Is the shaggiest snow-white polar bear!
    _Woof!_ but I wonder what we'd do
    If his bars broke loose right now, don't you?
                And O dear me!
                Just look and see
    That pink-cheeked lady in skirts of gauze
    And the great big lion with folded paws!
                O me! O my!
                I'm glad that I
    Am not in that lion's cage, because
    _Suppose he'd open his horrible jaws!_
    --But look! the clown is coming! Of course
    Facing the tail of a spotted horse
    And shouting out things to make folks laugh,
    And grinning up at the tall giraffe
    That placidly paces along and looks
    Just like giraffes in the picture-books!

    And there are the elephants, two and two,
    Lumbering on as they always do!
    The men who lead them look so small
    I wonder the elephants mind at all
                As they wag their queer
                Long trunks, and peer
    Through their beady eyes,--folks say they know
    No end of things, and I'm sure it's so!
    And you never must do a thing that's bad
    Or that possibly might make an elephant mad,
    For he'll never forgive you, it appears,
    And will punish you sure, if it takes him _years!_
                So do not stare
                But take good care
    To mind your manners, and always try
    To smile politely as they go by!

    But the camels don't care if you laugh at them
    With their bumpy humps like a capital M,
                They lurch and sway
                And seem to say,
    As they wrinkle their noses, long and gray,
    "This swaggering stride is quite the plan,
    It's the way we walked in the caravan!"

    And now more cages come rumbling by
    With glittering people throned on high;
    So many spangles and precious things,
    They surely must all be queens and kings!
                They look so proud
                Above the crowd,
    O my, how fine it must feel to ride
    On golden wagons that hide inside
    Strange animals caught in cannibal isles
    And brought in ships for a million miles!
                But hark! it's near
                The end, for hear
    That sudden screeching in piercing key!
    The steaming, screaming _cal-li-o-pe_!
    Just plain pianos sound terribly tame
    Beside this one with the wonderful name,
    And wouldn't you love some day to sit
    In a circus wagon and play on it?

MAY-BASKETS

    Let us take our baskets early
      To the meadows green,
    While the wild-flowers still are pearly
      With the dewdrops' sheen.

    Fill them full of blossoms rosy,
      Violets and gay
    Cowslips, every pretty posy
      Welcoming the May.

    Then our lovely loads we'll carry
      Down the village street,
    On each door, with laughter merry,
      Hang a basket sweet.

    Hey-a-day-day! It is spring now,
      Lazy folks, awake!
    See the pretty things we bring now
      For the May-day's sake!

THE PICTURE-BOOK GIANT

    Once there was a fierce, defiant,
    Greedy, grumpy, grizzly giant
      In the pages of a picture-book, and he
    Sometimes screamed, in sudden rages,
    "I must jump out from these pages,
      For this life's a much too humdrum one for me!
                  Fiddle-dee!
      Yes, this life's a quite too quiet one for me!"

    So one rainy day he did it,
    Took the picture-book and hid it,
      Stamped his foot, and shouting loudly,
          "Now I'm free!"
    Boldly started out, forgetting
    That he could not stand a wetting!
    He was just a paper giant, don't you see?
              Dearie me!
    Just a gaudy, picture giant, don't you see?

DID YOU EVER?

    Did you ever see a fairy in a rose-leaf coat and cap
    Swinging in a cobweb hammock as he napped his noonday nap?

    Did you ever see one waken very thirsty and drink up
    All the honey-dew that glimmered in a golden buttercup?

    Did you ever see one fly away on rainbow-twinkling wings?
    If you did not, why, how comes it that you never see such things?

DECORATION DAY

    See the soldiers, little ones!
      Hark the drummers' beat!
    See them with their flags and guns
      Marching down the street!

    Tattered flags from out the wars,
      Let us follow these
    To the little stripes and stars
      Twinkling through the trees.

    Watch them waving through the grass
      Where the heroes sleep!
    Thither gently let us pass
      On this day we keep.

    Let us bring our blossoms, too,
      All our gardens grow;
    Lilacs honey-sweet with dew,
      And the lilies' snow.

    Every posy of the May,
      Every bloomy stem,
    Every bud that breaks to-day
      Gather now for them.

    Lay the lilies o'er them thus,
      Lovingly, for so
    Down they laid their lives for us,
      Long and long ago.

    Heap above them bud and bough;
      Softly, ere we cease,
    God, we pray Thee, gently now
      Fold them in Thy peace!

CHU-CHU CARS

    Turn the chairs down in a row
    Each behind the other, so;
    _Chu-chu! Chu-chu!_ there they are,
    Passenger and baggage-car,
    _Chu-chu-chu!_ the Morris chair
    Is the engine puffing there,
    _Chu-chu! Chu-chu! Ting-a-ling!_
    Don't you hear its big bell ring?
    All aboard! Jump on! if you
    Want to take this train. _Chu-chu!!_
    Off we start now, rushing fast
    Through the fields and valleys, past
    Noisy cities, over bridges,
    Hills and plains and mountain ridges,
    _Chu-chu! Chu-chu! Chu-chu-chu!!_
    At such speed it must be true
    Since we started we have come
    Most a million miles from home!
    Jump off, some one! Quick! and go
    To the pantry, for, you know,
    We must have the cookie-jar
    For our Pullman dining-car!

FAIRY RINGS

    Softly in the gloaming
      Flitting through the vale,
    Fairy folk are roaming
      Over hill and dale.

    Pixies in the hollow,
      Elves upon the height,
    Let us follow, follow
      Through the paling light.

    Follow, all unbidden,
      To the grassy glade
    Wrapped around and hidden
      In the forest shade.

    Hark the elfin tinkle
      Of their little lutes!
    Mark the golden twinkle
      Of their fairy flutes!

    See them dancing, dancing,
      While the silver moon
    Tips their swiftly glancing
      Little silver shoon!

    Tripping, tripping lightly,
      Where their footprints fall,
    Look! the grass is brightly
      Growing green and tall!

    Springing close, unbroken,
      In a fairy ring,
    For to-morrow's token
      Of their frolicking!

THE FIREFLY

    Flash and flicker and fly away,
      Trailing light as you flutter far,
    Are you a lamp for the fairies, say?
      Or a flake of fire from a falling star?

A RAIN SONG

              Tinkle, tinkle,
                Lightly fall
      On the peach buds, pink and small;
    Tip the tiny grass, and twinkle
      On the clover, green and tall.

              Tinkle, tinkle,--
                Faster now,
      Little rain-drops, smite and sprinkle
    Cherry-bloom and apple-bough!
    Pelt the elms, and show them how
              You can dash!
                And splash! splash! splash!
    While the thunder rolls and mutters,
      And the lightnings flash and flash!
              Then eddy into curls
              Of a million misty swirls,
    And thread the air with silver, and embroider it with pearls!

    And patter, patter, patter
    To a quicker time, and clatter
      On the streaming window-pane;
              Rain, rain,
                On the leaves,
                  And the eaves,
      And the turning weather-vane!

    Rush in torrents from the tip
    Of the gable-peak, and drip
      In the garden-bed, and fill
        All the cuckoo-cups, and pour
              More and more
      In the tulip-bowls, and still
                Overspill
      In a crystal tide until
      Every yellow daffodil
    Is flooded to its golden rim, and brimming o'er and o'er!

    Then as gently as the low
      Muffled whir of robin wings,
      Or a sweep of silver strings,
                Even so,
        Take your airy April flight
        Through the merry April light,
    And melt into a mist of rainy music as you go!

FAIRIES

    Grandfather says that sometimes,
      When stars are twinkling and
    A new moon shines, there come times
      When folks see fairy-land!

    So when there's next a new moon,
      I mean to watch all night!
    Grandfather says a blue moon
      Is best for fairy light,

    And in a peach-bloom, maybe,
      If I look I shall see
    A little fairy baby
      No bigger than a bee!

THE LITTLE FIR-TREES

    Hey! little evergreens,
      Sturdy and strong!
    Summer and autumn time
      Hasten along;
    Harvest the sunbeams, then,
      Bind them in sheaves,
    Range them, and change them
      To tufts of green leaves.
    Delve in the mellow mold,
      Far, far below,
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    Up, up so airily
      To the blue sky,
    Lift up your leafy tips
      Stately and high;
    Clasp tight your tiny cones,
      Tawny and brown;
    By and by, buffeting
      Rains will pelt down;
    By and by, bitterly
      Chill winds will blow;
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    Gather all uttermost
      Beauty, because,--
    Hark, till I tell it now!
      How Santa Claus,
    Out of the northern land,
      Over the seas,
    Soon shall come seeking you,
      Evergreen trees!
    Seek you with reindeer soon,
      Over the snow;
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    What if the maples flare
      Flaunting and red,
    You shall wear waxen white
      Tapers instead!
    What if now, otherwhere,
      Birds are beguiled,
    You shall yet nestle
      The little Christ-child!
    Ah! the strange splendor
      The fir-trees shall know!
            And so,
      Little evergreens, grow!
            Grow, grow!
    Grow, little evergreens, grow!

THE WREN-HOUSE

    Yesterday I took my saw
      And some bits of wood,
    And I made a little house
      Nicely as I could.

    I put on a mossy-green
      Little pointed roof,
    And I cut a tiny door
      That is pussy-proof.

    For I hope some little wrens
      To our yard will come
    And will choose my little house
      For their little home.

    I shall hang it in the boughs
      Of the apple-tree,
    And I'm sure as rent for it
      They will sing to me!

THE BABY'S RIDE

    Chee! Chee! Chickadee!
      Sing-time and sun!
    Aye, aye, baby-bye,
      Springtime has begun!

       *       *       *       *       *

    In the little willow cart,
      On a downy bed,
    Pretty parasol of silk
      Swinging overhead,

    Let us go along the lane
      Where a baby sees
    Mighty tufts of grass, and weeds
      Tall as forest trees!

    Bluebird on the apple-bough,
      Sing and sing and sing!
    Sing your very sweetest now
      For babyhood and spring!

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Bah! Bah!" from the pasture,
      And "Caw! Caw!" from the crow,
    And bleating from the little calf
      That has not learned to low.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Apple-buds, apple-buds breaking apart,
      The baby looks upward with love-laden gaze;
    Oh, shower some petals down here in his cart,
      One honey-sweet cluster of pretty pink sprays!

    Apple-buds, apple-buds, scornful and too
      Vain of your loveliness, stay where you are!
    The cheeks of the baby are pinker than you,
      And finer and softer and sweeter by far!

       *       *       *       *       *

    See the pretty little lambs,
      How they frisk and play!
    See their silky fleeces shine
      White as buds in May!

    White as are the fleecy clouds
      Softly blowing by--
    What if they were little lambs
      Playing in the sky?

       *       *       *       *       *

    Robin on the peach-bough,
      Swinging overhead,
    Sing a little song and say
      Why is your breast so red?

    Why is your voice so sweet, and
      Your song so merry, say?
    And wherefore do you spread your wings
      And quickly fly away?

       *       *       *       *       *

    Ho, ho! see the queer little prints there
      That cover the road, baby, look!
    At the web-footed tangle that hints where
      The ducks have gone down to the brook!

    The Muscovy mammas that waddled
      Zigzag, you can trace in their tracks,
    And the dear little ducklings that toddled
      And tumbled sometimes on their backs!

       *       *       *       *       *

    Buttercup, buttercup, buttercup gold,
    O give us a handful of riches to hold!

    Ho, ho! laughs the baby, and grasps in his glee
    His wealth, but soon shows what a spend-thrift is he!
    --Nay, nay, he is king, though he never was crowned,
    And royally scatters his gold on the ground!

       *       *       *       *       *

    Bough of the willow-tree
      Over the brook,
    Down darts a kingfisher,
      Look, baby, look!

    Back on the willow-bough,
      Fishing is done;
    Happy and nappy now
      There in the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Happy and nappy the baby is, too,
    Softly his eyelids droop over the blue,
    Golden his curls on the white pillow lie,
    Sleep, baby, sleep, baby, hush-a-by-bye.

AN INDIAN RAID

    Did you see some Indians passing,
      Just a short while back?
    Looks as if they must be massing
      For a fierce attack!

    Buckskin fringes, turkey-feather
      Huge head-dresses and
    Bows and arrows, altogether
      Quite a frightful band!

    From the lilac-bushes springing,
      See them rushing! Ugh!
    Awful war-whoops wildly ringing!
      There'll be scalping, too!

    In their fearful frenzy leaping,
      It is very plain
    Soon around us they'll be heaping
      Mountains of the slain!

    Soon their victims will be falling--
      But, above the noise,
    Hark! I hear somebody calling,
      "Come to dinner, boys!"

THE FIRST SLEIGH-RIDE

    O happy time of fleecy rime
      And falling flakes, and O
    The glad surprise in baby eyes
      That never saw the snow!

    Down shining ways the flying sleighs
      Go jingling by, and see!
    Beside the gate the horses wait
      And neigh for you and me!

SLEEPY TIME

    Hey, baby! Ho, baby! here upon my knee,
    See the firelight flicker over you and me!

    See the tiny people basking in the glow,
    Peering through the ruddy little coals, and so

    How they dance and scamper! Merry fairy folk!
    Little sparks for spangles, little wings of smoke!

    Come baby, come baby, nestle in my arms;
    Hear the purring flames now sing their sleepy charms.

    All the firelight fairies, all the drowsy elves,
    In the downy ashes cover up themselves.

    And I fold the little blanket over you;
    Bye baby, my baby, let us slumber too.

WHEN BETTIE AND ANNE WENT WALKING

        When they took their dollies walking,
        They were both so busy talking,
    (They had not met for half an hour and so had much to say)
        That they heedlessly kept going
        Down the shady streets, not knowing,
    Till they wanted to come back again, they could not find the way!

        In their fright they felt forlorner
        Every time they turned a corner,
    And they wailed to one another, "Oh, whatever shall we do?
        A big bear might come to bite us,
        Or a dreadful dog to fight us,
    Or the wicked gipsies get us! _Oh, boo-hoo! Boo-hoo! Boo-hoo!_"

        But this story, though a sad one,
        Has an end that's not a bad one,
    For at last somebody found them as they bade the world good-by;
        They took their dollies home again,
        And vowed they'd never roam again,
    And their mothers hugged and kissed them, saying, "There, my dears,
            don't cry!"

THE BLUEBIRD

    To-day at dawn there twinkled through
    The pearly mist a flash of blue
      So dazzling bright I thought the sky
      Shone through the rifted clouds on high,
              Till, by and by,
    A note so honey-sweet I heard,
    I knew that bright flash was a bird!

THE ORGAN-GRINDER

    Hark! I hear the organ-grinder
      Coming down the street,
    And the sudden clatter-patter
      Of the children's feet!

    Come, oh, let us run to meet him!
      Did you ever hear
    Tunes so gay as he is playing,
      Or so sweet and clear?

    See the brown-faced little monkey,
      Impudent and bold,
    With his little scarlet jacket
      Braided all in gold!

    And his tiny cap and tassel
      Bobbing to and fro,
    Look, oh, look! he plucks it off now,
      Bowing very low.

    And he's passing it politely--
      Can it be for _pay_?
    O dear me! I have no penny!
      Let us run away!

THE NEW MOON

    Pretty new moon, little new moon,
      Now, as first I look at you,
    I must make a wish, for wise folks
      Say it surely will come true!

    Little new moon, pretty new moon,
      I wish--but I must not tell!
    For if any one should hear it,
      Wise folks say it breaks the spell!

SHOWERY TIME

    The April rain-drops tinkle
      In cuckoo-cups of gold,
    And warm south winds unwrinkle
      The buds the peach-boughs hold.

    In countless fluted creases
      The little elm-leaves show,
    While white as carded fleeces
      The dogwood blossoms blow.

    A rosy robe is wrapping
      The early red-bud trees;
    But still the haws are napping,
      Nor heed the honey-bees.

    And still in lazy sleeping
      The apple-buds are bound,
    But tulip-tips are peeping
      From out the garden ground.

    And yonder, gayly swinging
      Upon the turning vane,
    A robin redbreast singing
      Makes merry at the rain!

EASTER DAY

    Christ the Lord is risen to-day!
    Angels rolled the stone away
    From the tomb wherein He lay!

    Little children, come and sing,
    "Glory, glory to the King,
    Christ the Lord of everything!"

THE SANDMAN

    The Sandman! hark, I hear him!
      He's coming up the stair,
    And everybody near him
      Is nodding, I declare!

    He's peeping in the door now,
      And first of all he spies,
    As he has done before now,
      The little children's eyes!

    Then quickly does he throw it,
      His golden sleepy-sand,
    And all, before they know it,
      Are off for sleepy-land!

DANDELION CURLS

    Ah, ha, ha, now! who comes here
    Wreathed in flowers of gold and queer
    Tiny tangled curls of green
    Gayly bobbing in between?

    Pretty token of the spring!
    Hark! we hear the bluebirds sing
    When we thus see little girls
    Decked in dandelion curls.

POP-CORN

             _Pop! Pop!--Poppetty-pop!_
    Shake and rattle and rattle and shake
    The golden grains as they bounce and break
    To fluffy puffiness--_Poppetty-pop!_
    Bursting and banging the popper's top!
             _Poppetty-pop!
                  Pop! Pop!_

    The yellow kernels, oh, see them grow
    White as cotton or flakes of snow!
               _Pop! Pop!_
    O-ho, how they frolic and fly about
    And turn themselves suddenly inside out!
    _Pop-pop-poppetty! Pop-pop-pop!_
    The popper's full and we'll have to stop;
    Pile the bowl with the tempting treat,
    Children, come, it is time to eat!

THE RASH LITTLE SPARROW

      Rash little sparrow
        Up in the nest;
    Feathers not long enough,
    Wee wings not strong enough!
        Poor little sparrow!
        Poor little breast!

WHAT IF?

    When I see the new moon lightly
     Through cloud ripples slip,
    Then I'm sure that shining brightly
     It's a fairy ship!

    What if in it we were sailing
     Far and far away,
    With a wake of silver trailing,
     Till the golden day?

    Why, we'd fly back home together
     Safely from the sky,
    For the moon's a fairy feather
     When the sun is high!

EASTER EGGS

    Seven little nests of hay
    We have made, for Easter day
    Is to-morrow, and you know
    We must have them ready, so
    When the Rabbit comes she'll see
    We expected her, that we
    Children tried our very best
    Each to make the nicest nest.

    One is in the lilac-bush,
    Near the ground--last year a thrush
    Built a nest there--let me see,
    Two are by the apple-tree,
    In the clover--that makes three--
    One beside the playhouse door,
    --Three plus one, that must be four--
    Two are in the tulip-bed--
    Was it seven that I said?
    Oh, yes! six I've counted, and
    One is in our pile of sand.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Come and see! Oh, hurry, hurry!
    For the Rabbit, kind and furry,
    Has been here again and laid
    Eggs in every nest we made!
    Purple, orange, red, and blue,
    Pink and green and yellow, too,
    Like a bunch of finest flowers
    Ever seen, and all are ours!
    And oh, _look!_ What _do_ you think!
    Here our names are in white ink,
    All spelled nicely so we know
    Just where every egg should go!
    Is it not surprising, quite,
    How well Easter Rabbits write?

THE BIRDS' BATH

    In our garden we have made
      Such a pretty little pool,
    Lined with pebbles neatly laid,
      Filled with water clean and cool.

    When the sun shines warm and high
      Robins cluster round its brink,
    Never one comes flying by
      But will flutter down to drink.

    Then they splash and splash and splash,
      Spattering little showers bright
    All around, till off they flash
      Singing sweetly their delight.

NOVEMBER MORNING

    A tingling, misty marvel
      Blew hither in the night,
    And now the little peach-trees
      Are clasped in frozen light.

    Upon the apple-branches
      An icy film is caught,
    With trailing threads of gossamer
      In pearly patterns wrought.

    The autumn sun, in wonder,
      Is gayly peering through
    This silver-tissued network
      Across the frosty blue.

    The weather-vane is fire-tipped,
      The honeysuckle shows
    A dazzling icy splendor,
      And crystal is the rose.

    Around the eaves are fringes
      Of icicles that seem
    To mock the summer rainbows
      With many-colored gleam.

    Along the walk, the pebbles
      Are each a precious stone;
    The grass is tasseled hoarfrost,
      The clover jewel-sown.

    Such sparkle, sparkle, sparkle
      Fills all the frosty air,
    Oh, can it be that darkness
      Is ever anywhere!

THE RUNAWAY

    A frantic clatter of horses' feet!
    A runaway's coming down the street!
          Flurry, scurry,
          Children, hurry!
    Drop your playthings! Quick! don't wait!
    Run and get within the gate!
    Push the baby in the door,
    Scramble in yourselves before
          --_Whoa! Whoa!_
          There they go!
    Pell-mell rushing, snorting, quaking,
    Wagon rumbling, harness breaking,
    Frightened so they cannot know
    Everybody's shrieking "_Whoa!_"
          O my, don't cry!
      Whiz, bang, they've galloped by!
    No one hurt, but horses dashed
    Round a post and wagon smashed!
          Dear me! Dear me!
      When a runaway we see,
    Children, too, must run, oh, fast!
    Run and hide as it goes past!

LOST!

    "Peep! Peep! Peep!" Poor little chick!
      Little cry so weak and small,
    Meadow grass so tall and thick,
      And the clover tufts so tall!

    Little heart in sore distress,
      Longing for the mother wing;
    Through the weedy wilderness
      Searching for its sheltering!

THE QUEEN'S PAGE

    Once I was a little page
      To a May-day queen,
    And I wore a little coat
      Made of Lincoln green.

    Oh, the queen was beautiful!
      And she had a bright
    Crown of golden cuckoo-buds
      And violets blue and white.

    On the step beside her throne
      I sat very still,
    Ready, as a page should be,
      To obey her will.

    And before us little girls,
      Each with garlands gay,
    Round a May-pole danced and sang
      Almost all the day.

OUR TREE-TOAD

    Grandfather says the tree-toad,
      That to our yard has come,
    Is just a little wee toad
      No bigger than his thumb!

    And that his coat's so queer it
      Can turn from green to blue!
    Whatever color's near it,
      Why, that's its color, too!

    And then Grandfather snickers
      And says, "Would you suppose
    He climbs with little stickers
      On all his little toes?

    "And don't you wish your toes now
      Were fixed like his? For, see,
    Right up the elm he goes now
      And sticks tight to the tree!"

    "But then," he says, "O dear me!
      If all the little boys
    Could _screech_ as loud, I fear me
      There'd be a dreadful noise!"

IN THE WATER-WORLD

    Down among the water-weeds,
      Darting through the grass,
    Round about the tasseled reeds,
      See the minnows pass!
    See the little turtles there,
      Hiding, half asleep,
    Tucked in tangled mosses where
      Tiny crayfish creep!

    Watch the trailing grasses string
      Strands of purple shells
    That the lazy ripples ring,
      Sweet as silver bells;
    Watch the sunshine sift and drift
      Down the eddy whirls,
    Whence the laden whiteweeds lift
      Loads of blossom pearls;

    While the limpid shadows slip
      Softly in between,
    And the pussy-willows dip
      Lightly in the green
    Of the mocking trees that grow
      Down the water-sky,
    Flecked with fleecy clouds that blow
      Where the reed-birds fly.

    Oh, such marvels manifold
      Fill the summer stream,
    Such enticing things untold
      Through the ripples gleam,
    If you could a moment turn
      Into what you wish,
    Would it not be fun to be
      Yonder little fish?

WHO WAS IT?

    Of course I've heard the moon's green cheese,
    But will somebody tell me, please,
    Who was it took so big a bite
    There's scarcely any left to-night?

VISITING DAY

    I'll wear the striped skirt that trails,
      And you the flowered one,
    And we will take our parasols
      And walk out in the sun.

    We'll leave our dolly-carts at home,
      For ladies, when they call,
    Must not have children with them, no,
      That would not do at all.

    And I'll be "Mrs. Wilkinson,"
      And you'll be "Mrs. Brown,"
    And we will call and call and call
      On every one in town!

A VALENTINE TO CATHERINE

    If you will be my True-Love,
      I'll tell you what I'll do,
    I'll ask a little bluebird
      To sing a song to you.

    When first you see a violet
      And softly pricking through
    The garden-bed come crocuses
      And golden tulips, too,

    Then watch! for he'll be coming,
      The little bird of blue;
    He'll sing, "I love you, Sweetheart,
      It's true, true, true!"

FIREFLIES

    Look! Look down in the garden how
    The firefly lights are flitting now!
    A million tiny sparks I know
    Flash through the pinks and golden-glow,
    And I am very sure that all
    Have come to light a fairy ball,
    And if I could stay up I'd see
    How gay the fairy folks can be!

THE RAINY DAY

    Let's sail all day, away, away
      To the splendid Spanish Main
    And the sultry seas of the Caribbees
      And skies that never rain!

    As pirates bold with bags of gold
      And cutlasses and things,
    We'll pack doubloons and silver spoons
      In chests with iron rings.

    And these we'll carry and secretly bury
      In cannibal isles afar;
    Like Captain Kidd, when they're safely hid
      We won't tell where they are.

    Let's sail all day, away, away
      To the splendid Spanish Main
    And the sultry seas of the Caribbees
      --But at night sail home again!

THE FIRST RED-BIRD

    I heard a song at daybreak,
      So honey-sweet and clear,
    The essence of all joyous things
      Seemed mingling in its cheer.

    The frosty world about me
      I searched with eager gaze,
    But all was slumber-bound and wrapped
      In violet-tinted haze.

    Then suddenly a sunbeam
      Shot slanting o'er the hill,
    And once again from out the sky
      I heard that honied trill.

    And there upon a poplar,
      Poised at its topmost height,
    I saw a little singer clad
      In scarlet plumage bright.

    The poplar branches quivered,
      By dawn winds lightly blown,
    And like a breeze-swept poppy-flower
      The red-bird rocked and shone.

    The blue sky, and his feathers
      Flashed o'er by golden light,
    Oh, all my heart with rapture thrilled,
      It was so sweet a sight!

THE WEATHER-VANE

    Turn, turn, when pelting rain
    Rushes down the window-pane;
    Turn, turn, and turn again
    When the sun shines, weather-vane!

      Fie! Fie! to always be
      Emblem of uncertainty!
      Followed by the restless sea,
    Changeful moons may wax and wane,
      Yet the moons and sea-tides, too,
      Constant are compared to you!
    Fickle still you must remain
    Long as winds blow, weather-vane!

THE SWAN

    Stately swan, so proud and white
    Glistening in the morning light,
    Come and tell me is it true
    That a snow-white swan like you,
    Guided by bright golden chains
    In his beak for bridle reins,
    Once upon a time from far
    Fabled lands where fairies are
    Brought a magic boat wherein
    Rode the brave knight Lohengrin?

    Stately swan, so proud and white
    Glistening in the morning light,
    If you only wore a gold
    Harness, like that swan of old,
    And if trailing in your wake
    Sailing on the silver lake
    Was a boat of magic and
    You could float to fairy-land,
    Then I'd jump in and begin
    Traveling like Lohengrin!

BABY'S BAKING

    So, so, spade and hoe,
      Little pile of sand;
    See it turning into dough
      In the baby's hand!

    Little pie with crimpy crust,
      Set it in the sun;
    Sugar it with powdered dust,
      And bake it till it's done.

A SURE SIGN

    When you see upon the walk
    Circles newly made of chalk,
    And around them all the day
    Little boys in eager play
    Rolling marbles, agates fine,
    Banded, polished, red as wine,
    Marbles crystal as the dew,
    Each with rainbows twisted through,
    Marbles gay in painted clay,
    Flashing, twinkling in your way,
    When the walk has blossomed so,
    Surely every one must know
    None need wonder who has heard
    Robin, wren, or Peter-bird;
    Sure the sign as song or wing,
          It is spring!

ANOTHER SURE SIGN

    When pink-cheeked on every hand
    Little girls are seen to stand
    Turning skipping ropes,--_swish-swash!_--
    While their laughing playmates run
    Jumping over,--oh, what fun!--
      _Swish-swash! Swish-swash!_
    Two and two now, see them dash!
      _One, two, one, two,_
    Round they scamper, safely through,
    _Swish-swash!_ such merry skipping,
    _One, two,_--some one is tripping!
    Ah, she's out now and must pay
    Turning rope while others play!
    See the bobbing golden curls,
    Little skirts in rhythmic swirls
    Rising, falling, to the beat
    Of the little skipping feet!
    When these pretty sights appear,
    It is surely very clear
            April's here!

THE ROBIN'S BATH

    A flash and flicker of dripping wings,
      A wet red breast that glows
    Bright as the newly opened bud
      The first red poppy shows,
    A sparkle of flying rainbow drops,
      A glint of golden sun
    On ruffled feathers, a snatch of song,
      And the robin's bath is done.

THE FROSTED PANE

        When I wakened, very early,
        All my window-pane was pearly
    With a sparkling little picture traced in lines of shining white;
        Some magician with a gleaming
        Frosty brush, while I was dreaming,
    Must have come and by the starlight worked through all the quiet night.

        He had painted frosty people,
        And a frosty church and steeple,
    And a frosty bridge and river tumbling over frosty rocks;
        Frosty mountain peaks that glimmered,
        And fine frosty ferns that shimmered,
    And a frosty little pasture full of frosty little flocks.

        It was all touched in so lightly
        And it glittered, oh, so whitely,
    That I gazed and gazed in wonder at the lovely painted pane;
        Then the sun rose high and higher
        With his wand of golden fire
    Till, alas, my picture vanished and I looked for it in vain!

THE FIRST SNOW

    The snow! the snow! Whoop! Hooray! Ho! Ho!
    Plunge in the deep drifts and toss it up so!
      Rollick and roll in the feathery fleece
      Plucked out of the breasts of the marvelous geese
    By the little old woman who lives in the sky;
    Have ever you seen her? No, neither have I!

GRANDFATHER KNOWS

    Grandfather says of all things
      The silliest he's heard
    Is that some children call things
      They've never seen, "absurd!"
    And have their doubts of true things,
      And won't believe, because
    They say, "If you but knew things,
      There _is_ no Santa Claus!"

    Grandfather says he _knows_ him,
      And sees him every year,
    And Santa often shows him
      The playthings he brings here;
    He says, too, Santa told him
      If any girls and boys
    Laugh at and won't uphold him,
      They'll not get any toys!

SLEIGH-BELLS

    Tinkle, tinkle, tinkle!
      Happy winter-time!
    Baby's eyes a-twinkle,
      Hear the sleigh-bells chime!

    Each one rings a merry
      Ting-a-ling-a-ling!
    For a sleigh-bell fairy
      Hides inside to sing.

    See them quake and quiver,
      Up and downward tossed,
    Seems as if they shiver
      In the nipping frost!

    Shiver into laughter,
      Jolly little elves!
    Till we laugh thereafter,
      Merry as themselves!

THE RED-BIRD

    Swept lightly by the south wind
      The elm-leaves softly stirred,
    And in their pale green clusters
      There straightway bloomed a bird!

    His glossy feathers glistened
      With dyes as richly red
    As any tulip flaming
      From out the garden bed.

    But ah, unlike the tulips,
      In joyous strain, ere long,
    This red-bird flower unfolded
      A heart of golden song!

WILD BEASTS

    I will be a lion
      And you shall be a bear,
    And each of us will have a den
      Beneath a nursery chair;
    And you must growl and growl and growl,
      And I will roar and roar,
    And then--why, then--you'll growl again,
      And I will roar some more!

WHEREFORE WINGS?

    Heigho, sparrow! Reckless of the rain;
      When chill the cheerless wind grows,
    Chirping might and main!
      Is it naught, then, when the rose
                Blows again?

    Beating, sleeting on your draggled coat!
      Surely, 'tis enough to drown
    Any happy note
      Nestling in that downy brown
                Little throat.

    Ah me, sparrow! Had I but your power,
      Think you in the freezing sleet
    I would waste an hour?
      --I'd sing my sweetest to a sweet
                Orange flower!

BASKING

    Frosty winter chased away
      By the blessed sun,
    Down upon the garden walks
      Basking has begun.

    Oh, the happy, happy heat!
      How the pulses stir,
    How it warms the hearts beneath
      Little coats of fur!

    Oh, the happy pussy-cats!
      Days to doze and doze,
    And what pleasant dreams they dream
      Only pussy knows.

WITH A MAY-BASKET FOR BABY AGNES

              Peach-buds to meet thee,
              Robins to greet thee,
    Hey, little Sweetheart! and May morning, hey!
              Sunbeam and sing time,
              Bluebird and wing time,
    This time is kiss time for sweethearts, I say!

              Dearest, God bless thee,
              Fold and caress thee,
    Unto thy cradle may good fairies fly!
              Fortune be fair for thee,
              This is my prayer for thee,
    Lullaby, little one, hush-a-by-bye!

              So for a love now
              Token thereof now,
    Sweet, see this tiny May-basket I bring;
              Posies to play with,
              Pinks to be gay with,
    Dear little baby of sunshine and spring!

THE LITTLE NEST

    A little picture haunts me;
      It comes and comes again;
    It is a tiny bird's-nest,
      All ragged from the rain.

    It clings within a birch-tree
      Upon the moorland's edge,
    Between the barren branches,
      Above the swaying sedge.

    The sky is gray behind it,
      And when the north winds blow,
    The birch-tree bends and shivers,
      And tosses to and fro.

    I wonder, does it haunt them,
      The birds that flew away?
    And will they come to seek it,
      Some sunny summer day?

    I wonder, does some redbreast
      Upon an orange-bough,
    Still picture it as plainly
      As I can see it now?

    Ah me! I would forget it,
      Yet still, with sense of pain,
    I see this little bird's-nest
      Within the driving rain.

CHRISTMAS CANDLES

    When the Christ-child comes again
      Softly down the street to-night,
    Twinkling through the window pane
      Let our candles shed their light.

    Though the clouds are dark above
      And the golden stars are dim,
    We can tell Him of our love
      If we set a light for Him.

    Oh, the blessed Christ-child dear,
      In His robe of shining white,
    Let our candles give Him cheer
      As He passes by to-night!

A SONG OF THE CHRISTMAS-TREE

    We can tell Him of our love
      If we set a light for Him.

    Hurrah! Hurrah! for the Christmas-tree
    With its glory and glitter and mystery!
    Its twinkling candles that bud and bloom
    Like strange bright flowers in the darkened room,
    Its glistening gold and silver balls,
    Its candy canes and its blue-eyed dolls,
    The sugary fruits it bears,--for oh,
    Where else do such wonderful sweetmeats grow?--
    Its tasseled horns and its pop-corn strings
    And all its myriad marvelous things!
                O-ho! and ah-ha!
                  And a hip hurrah!
    For our dear and beautiful tree, because
    It grew in the gardens of Santa Claus

    And he brought it here in his reindeer sleigh
    From ever and ever so far away!
      _So, children, come, let us make a ring
      And all clasp hands as we dance and sing
      To the blessed tree and the blessed night
      When the Christ-child walks in the candles' light!_

    Hurrah! Hurrah! for the Christmas-tree
    That Santa Claus brought to you and me!
    He cut it down with a silver axe--
    There's a tree in each of his million packs!--
    And carried it safely over the snow
    And down our chimney and here, you know;
    Its golden cobwebs that glint and gleam
    He took from a lovely Christmas dream
    And tangled them over it till, behold,
    It shines like the fabled Fleece of Gold!

                Oh, Santa Claus, here's
                  A thrice three cheers
    For garlands green and berries of red,
    And mistletoe clustering overhead,
    For the joy of our Christmas festival!
    But our beautiful tree, it is best of all!
      _And circling still in a merry ring
      We'll still clasp hands as we dance and sing
      To the blessed tree and the blessed night
      When the Christ-child walks in the candles' light!_

    Hurrah! Hurrah! for the Christmas-tree!
    And look, O look to its tip and see
    The feathery slim fir leaves and where,
    In the topmost boughs, is the image fair
    Of the Christ-child nestling amid the green
    And the little brown cones that peep between!

    And high above Him glittering bright
    A gold star sparkles with golden light,
    And we children think, as we gaze on them,
    Of the wonderful Star of Bethlehem,
                Of the lovely Star
                  And the Kings who far,
    Oh, far, came seeking a Babe and brought
    Their love and worship to Him they sought,
    And made Him gifts, as the gifts we make
    With loving hearts for that Baby's sake.
      _Oh, come, come all, and join the ring!
      Let all clasp hands as we dance and sing
      To the blessed tree and the blessed night
      When the Christ-child walks in the candles' light!_

OUR KITTENS

    Our kittens have the softest fur,
    And the sweetest little purr,
    And such little velvet paws
    With such cunning little claws,
    And blue eyes, just like the sky!
    (_Must_ they turn green, by and by?)
    Two are striped like tigers, three
    Are as black as black can be,
    And they run so fast and play
    With their tails, and are so gay,
    Is it not a pity that
    Each must grow into a cat?

IN JULY

    Let us find a shady wady
      Pretty little brook;
    Let us have some candy handy,
      And a picture-book.

    There all day we'll stay and play and
      Never mind the heat,
    While the water gleaming, streaming,
      Ripples round our feet.

    And we'll gather curly pearly
      Mussel-shells while bright
    Frightened minnows darting, parting,
      Scurry out of sight.

    What if, what if,--heigho! my oh!--
      All the "ifs" were true,
    And the little fishes wishes,
      Now, what would you do?

A VALENTINE TO A LITTLE CHILD

    Dear heart, on this thrice-blessed day,
      An thou my sweetheart be,
    The rose of love shall bide alway
      Upon the red-rose tree.

    And in the garden of my heart
      So ceaselessly shall shine,
    The little birds will know thou art
      Mine own true Valentine.

    And I will bid them wing and sing
      To all good winds that blow,
    That to thy little feet they bring
      All blessings, even so.

    And o'er thy cradle I will coax,
      By every lucky charm,
    The friendship of the fairy folks
      To fold thee from all harm.

    So may they hover round thy head
      And gently thereupon,
    As doth the April sunshine, shed
      Most gracious benison.

    And all fair gifts that Fortune hath,
      I'll pray she promise these,
    And that she loose about thy path
      All sweet influences.

    Then here's a kiss! and there's a kiss!
      And kisses, one, two, three!
    I seal them in the folds of this,
      And speed them unto thee!

ZIP!

    When we went to drive the cows home
      Down the lane to-day,
    There was such a funny bunny
      Jumped across the way!

    All we saw as he ran past us,
      Faster than a quail,
    Was his snow-white fuzzy-wuzzy
      Little cotton tail!

A LITTLE CAROL

    Welcome, little Brother!
      Lowly, holy One!
    Hail thee, Virgin Mother,
    More than any other
      Blessed in thy Son!

    Child, since the poor manger
      Once thou didst not scorn,
    Rest thee, little Stranger,
    Folded from all danger,
      In our hearts new-born!

    Nestle thus, we pray thee,
      In our love's caress;
    Fain we are to pay thee
    Worship, and obey thee,
      Babe, and Prince no less!

SONG

    Honey-dew drippity-drops for a feast,
    Dreams of delight when the feasting has ceased,
                Poppy and rose,
                Drain them and doze;
    This is a song that the butterfly knows.

THE THREE CANDLES

    When the Christmas-tide drew nigh,
    On a shelf three candles bright,
    Two were red and one was white,
    Waited for who came to buy.

    Said the first one, "I shall be
    Chosen for a Christmas-tree!"
    Said the second, "I shall light
    Christ Jesus on His way to-night!"
    Then the third one sighed, "Ah me,
    I know not what my lot will be!"

    When the dark fell, bright and gay
    The first candle burned away,
    Red as all the berries red
    On the holly overhead,
    While the children in their glee
    Danced around the Christmas-tree.

    And the second, twinkling bright,
    Poured forth all its golden light
    Through a window decked with green
    Garlands and red ribbons' sheen,
    So the Christ-child when He came
    Might be guided by its flame.

    But the third one in the gloom
    Of a bare and cheerless room
    Softly burned where long had lain
    A poor little child in pain,
    And the baby in its bed
    By the light was comforted.

    When the Christ-child passed that night
    All three candles gave Him light,
    But the brightest was the spark
    By the baby in the dark.

THE ENDNote: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 19722-h.htm or 19722-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/9/7/2/19722/19722-h/19722-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/9/7/2/19722/19722-h.zip)

A CHILD'S GARDEN OF VERSES

by

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSoN

Illustrated by Myrtle Sheldon

M. A. Donohue & Co.
Chicago
by
M. A. Donohue and Company

BY WAY of INTRODUCTION

Nothing has ever been written that appeals to a child's nature more
than "A CHILD'S GARDEN OF VERSES." It is written in a simple verse
that a child can readily understand. It was one of the earlier efforts
of the author, Robert Louis Stevenson, a Scotchman by birth, who,
owing to ill-health, became a world traveler. During his travels he
visited the United States, spending a year among our famous resorts.
Later he visited Australia and the South Sea Islands, which climate
agreed with him to such an extent that he finally settled down and
made his home on the island of Samoa. He continued his travels from
that point, often visiting the Hawaiian Islands, Australia and New
Zealand. He formed a strong friendship for the natives of Samoa, and
did a great deal to improve their conditions. He died on the island,
and at his own request was buried on the top of one of its beautiful
mountains, with the following lines upon his tomb:

    _Here he lies, where he longed to be;
    Home is the Sailor, home from the sea,
    And the hunter home from the hill._

CONTENTS

   BED IN SUMMER

   YOUNG NIGHT THOUGHT

   PIRATE STORY

   FAREWELL TO THE FARM

   THE LAND OF COUNTERPANE

   FAIRY BREAD

   ESCAPE AT BEDTIME

   A GOOD PLAY

   MARCHING SONG

   WHERE GO THE BOATS

   THE HAYLOFT

   AUNTIE'S SKIRTS

   THE MOON

   THE COW

   FOREIGN LANDS

   SYSTEM

   AT THE SEASIDE

   HAPPY THOUGHT

   THE LAND OF NOD

   WINDY NIGHTS

   TIME TO RISE

   RAIN

   FOREIGN CHILDREN

   LOOKING FORWARD

   MY SHADOW

   THE SUN'S TRAVELS

   LOOKING-GLASS RIVER

   THE LAMPLIGHTER

   SINGING

   TRAVEL

   MY BED IS A BOAT

   KEEPSAKE MILL

   THE UNSEEN PLAYMATE

   MY SHIP AND I

   THE WIND

   A GOOD BOY

   GOOD AND BAD CHILDREN

   PICTURE-BOOKS IN WINTER

   THE SWING

   A THOUGHT

   ARMIES IN THE FIRE

   MY KINGDOM

   SHADOW MARCH

   WINTER-TIME

   THE LITTLE LAND

   IN PORT

   NIGHT AND DAY

   NEST EGGS

   THE FLOWERS

   FROM A RAILWAY CARRIAGE

   MY TREASURES

   BLOCK CITY

   THE GARDENER

A CHILD'S GARDEN of VERSES

BED IN SUMMER

    In winter I get up at night,
    And dress by yellow candle light.
    In summer quite the other way,
    I have to go to bed by day.

    I have to go to bed and see
    The birds still hopping on the tree,
    Or hear the grown-up people's feet,
    Still going past me in the street.

    And does it not seem hard to you,
    When all the sky is clear and blue,
    And I should like so much to play,
    To have to go to bed by day?

YOUNG NIGHT THOUGHT

    All night long and every night,
    When my mamma puts out the light
    I see the people marching by,
    As plain as day, before my eye.

    Armies and emperors and kings,
    All carrying different kinds of things,
    And marching in so grand a way,
    You never saw the like by day.

    So fine a show was never seen
    At the great circus on the green;
    For every kind beast and man
    Is marching in that caravan.

    At first they move a little slow,
    But still the faster on they go,
    And still beside them close I keep
    Until we reach the Town of Sleep.

PIRATE STORY

    Three of us afloat in the meadow by the swing.
    Three of us aboard in the basket on the lea.
    Winds are in the air, they are blowing in the spring,
    And waves are on the meadow like the waves there are at sea.

    Where shall we adventure, to-day that we're afloat,
      Wary of the weather and steering by a star?
    Shall it be to Africa, a-steering of the boat,
      To Providence, or Babylon, or off to Malabar?

    Hi! but here's a squadron a-rowing on the sea--
      Cattle on the meadow a-charging with a roar!
    Quick, and we'll escape them, they're as mad as they can be,
    The wicket is the harbor and the garden is the shore.

FAREWELL TO THE FARM

    The coach is at the door at last;
    The eager children, mounting fast
    And kissing hands, in chorus sing:
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

    To house and garden, field and lawn,
    The meadow-gates we swung upon,
    To pump and stable, tree and swing,
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

    And fare you well for evermore,
    O ladder at the hayloft door,
    O hayloft where the cobwebs cling,
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

    Crack goes the whip, and off we go;
    The trees and houses smaller grow;
    Last, round the woody turn we swing:
    Good-bye, good-bye, to everything!

THE LAND OF COUNTERPANE

    When I was sick and lay a-bed,
    I had two pillows at my head,
    And all my toys beside me lay
    To keep me happy all the day.

    And sometimes for an hour or so
    I watched my leaden soldiers go,
    With different uniforms and drills,
    Among the bed-clothes, through the hills.

    And sometimes sent my ships in fleets
    All up and down among the sheets;
    Or brought my trees and houses out,
    And planted cities all about.

    I was the giant great and still
    That sits upon the pillow-hill,
    And sees before him, dale and plain
    The pleasant Land of Counterpane.

    Come up here, O dusty feet!
      Here is fairy bread to eat

    Here in my retiring room,
      Children, you may dine

    On the golden smell of broom
      And the shade of pine

    And when you have eaten well,
      Fairy stories hear and tell.

ESCAPE AT BEDTIME

    The lights from the parlor and kitchen shone out
      Through the blinds and the windows and bars;
    And high over head and all moving about,
      There were thousands of millions of stars.
    There ne'er were such thousands of leaves on a tree,
      Nor of people in church or the Park,
    As the crowds of the stars that looked down upon me,
      And that glittered and winked in the dark.

    The Dog, and the Plough, and the Hunter and all,
      And the star of the sailor, and Mars,
    These shone in the sky, and the pail by the wall
      Would be half full of water and stars.
    They saw me at last, and they chased me with cries,
      And they soon had me packed into bed;
    But the glory kept shining and bright in my eyes,
    And the stars going round in my head.

A GOOD PLAY

    We built a ship upon the stairs
    All made of the back-bedroom chairs,
    And filled it full of sofa pillows
    To go a-sailing on the billows.

    We took a saw and several nails,
    And water in the nursery pails;
    And Tom said, "Let us also take
    An apple and a slice of cake;"--
    Which was enough for Tom and me
    To go a-sailing on, till tea.

    We sailed along for days and days,
    And had the very best of plays;
    But Tom fell out and hurt his knee,
    So there was no one left but me.

MARCHING SONG

    Bring the comb and play upon it!
      Marching, here we come!
    Willie cocks his highland bonnet,
      Johnnie beats the drum.

    Mary Jane commands the party,
      Peter leads the rear;
    Feet in time, alert and hearty,
      Each a Grenadier!

    All in the most martial manner
      Marching double-quick;
    While the napkin like a banner
      Waves upon the stick!

    Here's enough of fame and pillage,
      Great commander Jane!
    Now that we've been round the village,
      Let's go home again.

WHERE GO THE BOATS?

    Dark brown is the river,
        Golden is the sand.
    It flows along for ever,
        With trees on either hand.

    Green leaves a-floating,
        Castles of the foam,
    Boats of mine a-boating--
        Where will all come home?

    On goes the river
        And out past the mill,
    Away down the valley,
        Away down the hill.

    Away down the river,
        A hundred miles or more,
    Other little children
        Shall bring my boats ashore.

THE HAYLOFT

    Through all the pleasant meadow-side
      The grass grew shoulder-high,
    Till the shining scythes went far and wide
      And cut it down to dry.

    These green and sweetly smelling crops
      They led in wagons home;
    And they piled them here in mountain-tops
      For mountaineers to roam.

    Here is Mount Clear, Mount Rusty-Nail,
      Mount Eagle and Mount High;--
    The mice that in these mountains dwell,
      No happier are than I!

    O what a joy to clamber there,
      O what a place for play,
    With the sweet, the dim, the dusty air,
      The happy hills of hay!

AUNTIE'S SKIRTS

    Whenever Auntie moves around
      Her dresses make a curious sound.
    They trail behind her up the floor,
      And trundle after through the door.

THE MOON

    The moon has a face like the clock in the hall;
    She shines on thieves on the garden wall,
    On streets and fields and harbor quays,
    And birdies asleep in the forks of the trees.

    The squalling cat and the squeaking mouse,
    The howling dog by the door of the house,
    The bat that lies in bed at noon,
    All love to be out by the light of the moon.

    But all of the things that belong to the day
    Cuddle to sleep to be out of her way;
    And flowers and children close their eyes
    Till up in the morning the sun shall rise.

THE COW

    The friendly cow all red and white,
        I love with all my heart:
    She gives me cream with all her might,
        To eat with apple-tart.

    She wanders lowing here and there,
        And yet she cannot stray,
    All in the pleasant open air,
        The pleasant light of day.

    And blown by all the winds that pass
        And wet with all the showers,
    She walks among the meadow grass
        And eats the meadow flowers.

FOREIGN LANDS

    Up into the cherry tree
    Who should climb but little me?
    I held the trunk with both my hands
    And looked abroad on foreign lands.

    I saw the next door garden lie,
    Adorned with flowers, before my eye,
    And many pleasant places more
    That I had never seen before.

    I saw the dimpling river pass
    And be the sky's blue looking-glass;
    The dusty roads go up and down
    With people tramping into town.

    If I could find a higher tree
    Farther and farther I should see,
    To where the grown-up river slips
    Into the sea among the ships.

    To where the roads on either hand
    Lead onward into fairy land,
    Where all the children dine at five,
    And all the playthings come alive.

SYSTEM

    Every night my prayers I say,
    And get my dinner every day;
    And every day that I've been good
    I get an orange after food.

    The child that is not clean and neat,
    With lots of toys and things to eat,
    He is a naughty child, I'm sure--
    Or else his dear papa is poor.

AT THE SEASIDE

    When I was down beside the sea,
    A wooden spade they gave to me
      To dig the sandy shore.
    My holes were hollow like a cup,
    In every hole the sea came up,
      Till it could hold no more.

HAPPY THOUGHT

    The world is so full of a number of things,
    I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings

THE LAND OF NOD

    From breakfast on through all the day
    At home among my friends I stay,
    But every night I go abroad
    Afar into the Land of Nod.

    All by myself I have to go,
    With none to tell me what to do--
    All alone beside the streams
    And up the mountain-sides of dreams.

    The strangest things are there for me,
    Both things to eat and things to see,
    And many frightening sights abroad
    Till morning in the Land of Nod.

    Try as I like to find the way,
    I never can get back by day,
    Nor can remember plain and clear
    The curious music that I hear.

WINDY NIGHTS

    Whenever the moon and stars are set,
      Whenever the wind is high,
    All night long in the dark and wet,
      A man goes riding by.
    Late in the night when the fires are out,

    Why does he gallop and gallop about?
    Whenever the trees are crying aloud,
      And ships are tossed at sea,
    By, on the highway, low and loud,
      By at the gallop goes he.
    By at the gallop he goes, and then
    By he comes back at the gallop again.

TIME TO RISE

    A birdie with a yellow bill
      Hopped up on the window sill,
    Cocked his shining eye and said:
    'Ain't you 'shamed, you sleepy-head?'

RAIN

    The rain is raining all around.
      It falls on field and tree,
    It rains on the umbrellas here,
      And on the ships at sea.

FOREIGN CHILDREN

    Little Indian, Sioux or Crow,
    Little frosty Eskimo,
    Little Turk or Japanee,
    O! don't you wish that you were me?

    You have seen the scarlet trees
    And the lions over seas;
    You have eaten ostrich eggs,
    And turned the turtles off their legs.

    Such a life is very fine,
    But it's not so nice as mine:
    You must often, as you trod,
    Have wearied _not_ to be abroad.

    You have curious things to eat,
    I am fed on proper meat;
    You must dwell beyond the foam,
    But I am safe and live at home.

LOOKING FORWARD

      When I am grown to man's estate
    I shall be very proud and great,
      And tell the other girls and boys
    Not to meddle with my toys.

MY SHADOW

    I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me,
    And what can be the use of him is more than I can see.
    He is very, very like me, from the heels up to the head;
    And I see him jump before me, when I jump into my bed.

    The funniest thing about him is the way he likes to grow--
    Not at all like proper children, which is always very slow;
    For he sometimes shoots up taller, like an india-rubber ball,
    And he sometimes gets so little that there's none of him at all.

    He hasn't got a notion of how children ought to play,
    And can only make a fool of me in every sort of way.
    He stays so close beside me, he's a coward you can see;
    I'd think shame to stick to nursie as that shadow sticks to me!

    One morning, very early, before the sun was up,
    I 'rose and found the shining dew on every buttercup;
    But my lazy little shadow, like an arrant sleepy head,
    Had stayed at home behind me and was fast asleep in bed.

THE SUN'S TRAVELS

    The sun is not a-bed when I
    At night upon my pillow lie;
    Still round the earth his way he takes,
    And morning after morning makes.

    While here at home in shining day,
    We round the sunny garden play,
    Each little Indian sleepy-head
    Is being kissed and put to bed.

    And when at eve I rise from tea,
    Day dawns beyond the Atlantic Sea;
    And all the children in the West
    Are getting up and being dressed.

LOOKING-GLASS RIVER

    Smooth it slides upon its travel,
    Here a wimple, there a gleam--
        O the clean gravel!
        O the smooth stream!

    Sailing blossoms, silver fishes,
      Paven pools as clear as air--
        How a child wishes
        To live down there!

    We can see our colored faces
      Floating on the shaken pool
        Down in cool places,
        Dim and very cool;

    Till a wind or water wrinkle,
      Dipping marten, plumping trout,
        Spreads in a twinkle
        And blots all out.

    See the rings pursue each other;
      All below grows black as night,
        Just as if mother
        Had blown out the light!

    Patience, children, just a minute--
      See the spreading circles die;
        The stream and all in it
        Will clear by-and-by.

THE LAMPLIGHTER

    My tea is nearly ready and the sun has left the sky;
    It's time to take the window to see Leerie going by;
    For every night at teatime and before you take your seat,
    With lantern and with ladder he comes posting up the street.

    Now Tom would be a driver and Maria go to sea,
    And my papa's a banker and as rich as he can be;
    But I, when I am stronger and can choose what I'm to do,
    O Leerie, I'll go round at night and light the lamps with you!

    For we are very lucky, with a lamp before the door,
    And Leerie stops to light it as he lights so many more;
    And O, before you hurry by with ladder and with light,
    O Leerie, see a little child and nod to him to-night!

SINGING

    Of speckled eggs the birdie sings
      And nests among the trees;
    The sailor sings of ropes and things
      In ships upon the seas.

    The children sing in far Japan,
      The children sing in Spain;
    The organ with the organ man
      Is singing in the rain.

TRAVEL

    I should like to rise and go
    Where the golden apples grow;--
    Where below another sky
    Parrot Islands anchored lie,
    And, watched by cockatoos and goats,
    Lonely Crusoes building boats;--
    Where in sunshine reaching out
    Eastern cities, miles about,
    Are with mosque and minaret
    Among sandy gardens set,
    And the rich goods from near and far
    Hang for sale in the bazaar;--
    Where the Great Wall round China goes,
    And on one side the desert blows,
    And with bell and voice and drum,
    Cities on the other hum;--
    Where are forests, hot as fire,
    Wide as England, tall as a spire,
    Full of apes and cocoa-nuts
    And the negro hunters' huts;--
    Where the knotty crocodile
    Lies and blinks in the Nile,
    And the red flamingo flies
    Hunting fish before his eyes;--
    Where in jungles, near and far,
    Man-devouring tigers are,
    Lying close and giving ear
    Lest the hunt be drawing near,
    Or a comer-by be seen
    Swinging in a palanquin;--
    Where among the desert sands
    Some deserted city stands,
    All its children, sweep and prince,
    Grown to manhood ages since,
    Not a foot in street or house,
    Not a stir of child or mouse,
    And when kindly falls the night,
    In all the town no spark of light.
    There I'll come when I'm a man
    With a camel caravan;
    Light a fire in the gloom
    Of some dusty dining room;
    See the pictures on the walls,
    Heroes, fights and festivals
    And in a corner find the toys
    Of the old Egyptian boys.

MY BED IS A BOAT

    My bed is like a little boat;
      Nurse helps me in when I embark;
    She girds me in my sailor's coat
      And starts me in the dark.

    At night, I go on board and say
      Good night to all my friends on shore;
    I shut my eyes and sail away
      And see and hear no more.

    And sometimes things to bed I take,
      As prudent sailors have to do;
    Perhaps a slice of wedding-cake,
      Perhaps a toy or two.

    All night across the dark we steer:
      But when the day returns at last
    Safe in my room, beside the pier,
      I find my vessel fast.

KEEPSAKE MILL

    Over the borders, a sin without pardon,
      Breaking the branches and crawling below,
    Out through the breach in the wall of the garden,
      Down by the banks of the river, we go.

    Here is the mill with the humming of thunder,
      Here is the weir with the wonder of foam,
    Here is the sluice with the race running under--
      Marvelous places, though handy to home!

    Sounds of the village grow stiller and stiller,
      Stiller the note of the birds on the hill;
    Dusty and dim are the eyes of the miller,
      Deaf are his ears with the moil of the mill.

    Years may go by, and the wheel in the river
      Wheel as it wheels for us, children, to-day.
    Wheel and keep roaring and foaming for ever
      Long after all of the boys are away.

    Home from the Indies and home from the ocean,
      Heroes and soldiers we all shall come home;
    Still we shall find the old mill wheel in motion,
      Turning and churning that river to foam.

    You with the bean that I gave when we quarreled,
      I with your marble of Saturday last,
    Honored and old and all gaily apparelled,
      Here we shall meet and remember the past.

THE UNSEEN PLAYMATE

    When children are playing alone on the green,
    In comes the playmate that never was seen.
    When children are happy and lonely and good,
    The Friend of the Children comes out of the wood.

    Nobody heard him and nobody saw,
    His is a picture you never could draw,
    But he's sure to be present, abroad or at home,
    When children are happy and playing alone.

    He lies in the laurels, he runs on the grass,
    He sings when you tinkle the musical glass;
    Whene'er you are happy and cannot tell why,
    The Friend of the Children is sure to be by!

    He loves to be little, he hates to be big,
    'Tis he that inhabits the caves that you dig;
    'Tis he when you play with your soldiers of tin
    That sides with the Frenchman and never can win.

    'Tis he, when at night you go off to your bed,
    Bids you go to your sleep and not trouble your head;
    For wherever they're lying, in cupboard or shelf,
    'Tis he will take care of your playthings himself.

MY SHIP AND I.

    O it's I that am the captain of a tidy little ship,
      Of a ship that goes a-sailing on the pond;
    And my ship it keeps a-turning all around and all about;
    But when I'm a little older, I shall find the secret out
      How to send my vessel sailing on beyond.

    For I mean to grow as little as the dolly at the helm,
      And the dolly I intend to come alive;
    And with him beside to help me, it's a-sailing I shall go,
    It's a-sailing on the water, when the jolly breezes blow
    And the vessel goes a divie-divie dive.

    O it's then you'll see me sailing through the rushes and the reeds,
      And you'll hear the water singing at the prow;
    For beside the dolly sailor, I'm to voyage and explore,
    To land upon the island where no dolly was before,
      And to fire the penny cannon in the bow.

THE WIND

    I saw you toss the kites on high
    And blow the birds about the sky;
    And all around I heard you pass,
    Like ladies' skirts across the grass--
      O wind, a-blowing all day long!
      O wind, that sings so loud a song!

    I saw the different things you did,
    But always you yourself you hid.
    I felt you push, I heard you call,
    I could not see yourself at all--
      O wind, a-blowing all day long,
      O wind, that sings so loud a song!

    O you that are so strong and cold,
    O blower, are you young or old?
    Are you a beast of field and tree,
    Or just a stronger child than me?
      O wind, a-blowing all day long,
      O wind, that sings so loud a song!

A GOOD BOY

    I woke before the morning, I was happy all the day,
    I never said an ugly word, but smiled and stuck to play.

    And now at last the sun is going down behind the wood,
    And I am very happy, for I know that I've been good.

    My bed is waiting cool and fresh, with linen smooth and fair,
    And I must off to sleepsin-by, and not forget my prayer.

    I know that, till to-morrow I shall see the sun arise,
    No ugly dream shall fright my mind, no ugly sight my eyes.

    But slumber hold me tightly, till I waken in the dawn,
    And hear the thrushes singing in the lilacs round the lawn.

GOOD AND BAD CHILDREN

    Children, you are very little,
    And your bones are very brittle;
    If you would grow great and stately,
    You must try to walk sedately.

    You must still be bright and quiet,
    And content with simple diet;
    And remain, through all bewild'ring,
    Innocent and honest children.

    Happy hearts and happy faces,
    Happy play in grassy places--
    That was how, in ancient ages,
    Children grew to kings and sages.

    But the unkind and the unruly,
    And the sort who eat unduly,
    They must never hope for glory--
    Theirs is quite a different story!

    Cruel children, crying babies,
    All grow up as geese and gabies,
    Hated, as their age increases,
    By their nephews and their nieces.

PICTURE-BOOKS IN WINTER

    Summer fading, winter comes--
    Frosty mornings, tingling thumbs,
    Window robins, winter rooks,
    And the picture story-books.

    Water now is turned to stone
    Nurse and I can walk upon;
    Still we find the flowing brooks
    In the picture story-books.

    All the pretty things put by
    Wait upon the childrens' eye,
    Sheep and shepherds, trees and crooks,
    In the picture story-books.

    We may see how all things are,
    Seas and cities, near and far,
    And the flying fairies' looks,
    In the picture story-books.

    How am I to sing your praise,
    Happy chimney-corner days,
    Sitting safe in nursery nooks,
    Reading picture story-books?

THE SWING

    How do you like to go up in a swing,
      Up in the air so blue?
    Oh, I do think it the pleasantest thing
      Ever a child can do!

    Up in the air and over the wall,
      Till I can see so wide,
    Rivers and trees and cattle and all
      Over the countryside--

    Till I look down on the garden green,
      Down on the roof so brown--
    Up in the air I go flying again,
      Up in the air and down!

A THOUGHT

    It is very nice to think
     The world is full of meat and drink
    With little children saying grace
     In every Christian kind of place.

ARMIES IN THE FIRE

    The lamps now glitter down the street;
    Faintly sound the falling feet
    And the blue even slowly falls
    About the garden trees and walls.

    Now in the falling of the gloom
    The red fire paints the empty room;
    And warmly on the roof it looks,
    And flickers on the backs of books.

    Armies march by tower and spire
    Of cities blazing, in the fire;--
    Till as I gaze with staring eyes,
    The armies fade, the lustre dies.

    Then once again the glow returns;
    Again the phantom city burns;
    And down the red-hot valley, lo!
    The phantom armies marching go!

    Blinking embers, tell me true
    Where are those armies marching to,
    And what the burning city is
    That crumbles in your furnaces!

MY KINGDOM

    Down by a shining water well
    I found a very little dell,
        No higher than my head.
    The heather and the gorse about
    In summer bloom were coming out,
        Some yellow and some red.

    I called the little pool a sea;
    The little hills were big to me;
        For I am very small.
    I made a boat, I made a town,
    I searched the caverns up and down,
        And named them one and all.

    And all about was mine, I said,
    The little sparrows overhead,
        The little minnows, too.
    This was the world and I was king;
    For me the bees came by to sing,
        For me the swallows flew.

    I played there were no deeper seas,
    Nor any wider plains than these,
        Nor other kings than me.
    At last I heard my mother call
    Out from the house at evenfall,
        To call me home to tea.

    And I must rise and leave my dell,
    And leave my dimpled water well,
        And leave my heather blooms.
    Alas! and as my home I neared,
    How very big my nurse appeared,
        How great and cool the rooms!

SHADOW MARCH

    All round the house is the jet-black night;
        It stares through the window-pane;
    It crawls in the corners, hiding from the light,
        And it moves with the moving flame.

    Now my little heart goes a-beating like a drum,
        With the breath of Bogie in my hair,
    And all round the candle the crooked shadows come,
        And go marching along up the stair.

    The shadow of the balusters, the shadow of the lamp,
        The shadow of the child that goes to bed--
    All the wicked shadows coming, tramp, tramp, tramp,
        With the black night overhead.

WINTER-TIME

    Late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
    A frosty, fiery sleepy-head;
    Blinks but an hour or two; and then,
    A blood-red orange, sets again.

    Before the stars have left the skies,
    At morning in the dark I rise;
    And shivering in my nakedness,
    By the cold candle, bathe and dress.

    Close by the jolly fire I sit
    To warm my frozen bones a bit;
    Or with a reindeer-sled, explore
    The colder countries round the door.

    When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
    Me in my comforter and cap;
    The cold wind burns my face and blows
    Its frosty pepper up my nose.

    Black are my steps on silver sod;
    Thick blows my frosty breath abroad;
    And tree and house, and hill and lake,
    Are frosted like a wedding-cake.

THE LITTLE LAND

    When at home alone I sit
    And am very tired of it,
    I have just to shut my eyes
    To go sailing through the skies--
    To go sailing far away
    To the pleasant Land of play;
    To the fairy land afar
    Where the Little People are;
    Where the clover-tops are trees,
    And the rain-pools are the seas,
    And the leaves like little ships
    Sail about on tiny trips;
    And above the daisy tree
        Through the grasses,
    High o'erhead the Bumble Bee
        Hums and passes.

    In that forest to and fro
    I can wander, I can go;
    See the spider and the fly,
    And the ants go marching by
    Carrying parcels with their feet
    Down the green and grassy street.
    I can in the sorrel sit
    Where the ladybird alit.
    I can climb the jointed grass;
        And on high
    See the greater swallows pass
        In the sky,
    And the round sun rolling by
    Heeding no such things as I.

    Through that forest I can pass
    Till, as in a looking-glass,
    Humming fly and daisy tree
    And my tiny self I see,
    Painted very clear and neat
    On the rain-pool at my feet.

    Should a leaflet come to land
    Drifting near to where I stand,
    Straight I'll board that tiny boat
    Round the rain-pool sea to float.

    Little thoughtful creatures sit
    On the grassy coasts of it;
    Little things with lovely eyes
    See me sailing with surprise.
    Some are clad in armour green--
    (These have sure to battle been!)--
    Some are pied with ev'ry hue,
    Black and crimson, gold and blue;
    Some have wings and swift are gone;
    But they all look kindly on.

    When my eyes I once again
    Open, and see all things plain;
    High bare walls, great bare floor;
    Great big knobs on drawer and door;
    Great big people perched on chairs,
    Stitching tucks and mending tears,
    Each a hill that I could climb,
    And talking nonsense all the time--
       O dear me,
       That I could be
    A sailor on the rain-pool sea,
    A climber in, the clover tree,
    And just come back, a sleepy-head,
    Late at night to go to bed.

IN PORT

    Last, to the chamber where I lie
    My fearful footsteps patter nigh,
    And come from out the cold and gloom
    Into my warm and cheerful room.

    There, safe arrived, we turn about
    To keep the coming shadows out,
    And close the happy door at last
    On all the perils that we passed.

    Then, when mamma goes by to bed,
    She shall come in with tip-toe tread,
    And see me lying warm and fast
    And in the Land of Nod at last.

NIGHT AND DAY

    When the golden day is done,
      Through the closing portal,
    Child and garden, flower and sun,
      Vanish all things mortal.

    As the blinding showers fall,
      As the rays diminish,
    Under evening's cloak they all
      Roll away and vanish.

    Garden darkened, daisy shut,
      Child in bed, they slumber--
    Glow-worm in the highway rut,
      Mice among the lumber.

    In the darkness houses shine,
        Parents move with candles
    Till on all, the night divine
        Turns the bedroom handles.

    Till at last the day begins
        In the east a-breaking,
    In the hedges and the whins
        Sleeping birds a-waking.

    In the darkness shapes of things,
        Houses, trees and hedges,
    Clearer grow; and sparrow's wings
        Beat on window ledges.

    These shall wake the yawning maid,
        She the door shall open--
    Finding dew on garden glade
        And the morning broken.

    There my garden grows again
        Green and rosy painted,
    As at eve behind the pane
        From my eyes it fainted.

    Just as it was shut away,
        Toy-like, in the even,
    Here I see it glow with day
        Under glowing heaven.

    Every path and every plot,
        Every bush of roses,
    Every blue forget-me-not
        Where the dew reposes.

    'Up! they cry, 'the day is come
        On the smiling valleys;
    We have beat the morning drum;
        Playmate, join your allies!'

NEST EGGS

    Birds all the sunny day
      Flutter and quarrel
    Here in the arbor-like
      Tent of the laurel.

    Here in the fork
      The brown nest is seated;
    Four little blue eggs
      The mother keeps heated.

    While we stand watching her,
      Staring like gabies,
    Safe in each egg are the
      Bird's little babies.

    Soon the frail eggs they shall
      Chip, and upspringing
    Make all the April woods
      Merry with singing.

    Younger than we are,
      O children, and frailer,
    Soon in blue air they'll be,
      Singer and sailor.

    We, so much older,
      Taller and stronger,
    We shall look down on the
      Birdies no longer.

    They shall go flying
      With musical speeches
    High over head in the
      Tops of the beeches.

    In spite of our wisdom
      And sensible talking,
    We on our feet must go
      Plodding and walking.

THE FLOWERS

    All the names I know from nurse:
    Gardener's garters, Shepherd's purse,
    Bachelor's buttons, Lady's smock,
    And the Lady Hollyhock.

    Fairy places, fairy things,
    Fairy woods where the wild bee wings,
    Tiny trees for tiny dames--
    These must all be fairy names!

    Tiny woods below whose boughs
    Shady fairies weave a house;
    Tiny tree-tops, rose or thyme,
    Where the braver fairies climb!

    Fair are grown-up people's trees,
    But the fairest woods are these;
    Where if I were not so tall,
    I should live for good and all.

FROM A RAILWAY CARRIAGE

    Faster than fairies, faster than witches,
    Bridges and houses, hedges and ditches;
    And charging along like troops in a battle,
    All through the meadows the horses and cattle:
    All of the sights of the hill and the plain
    Fly as thick as driving rain;
    And ever again in the wink of an eye,
    Painted stations whistle by.

    Here is a child who clambers and scrambles,
    All by himself and gathering brambles;
    Here is a tramp who stands and gazes;
    And there is the green for stringing the daisies!
    Here is a cart run away in the road
    Lumping along with man and load;
    And here is a mill and there is a river,
    Each a glimpse and gone forever!

MY TREASURES

    These nuts, that I keep in the back of the nest
    Where all my lead soldiers are lying at rest,
    Were gathered in autumn by nursie and me
    In a wood with a well by the side of the sea.

    This whistle we made (and how clearly it sounds!)
    By the side of a field at the end of the grounds.
    Of a branch of a plane, with a knife of my own,
    It was nursie who made it, and nursie alone!

    The stone, with the white and the yellow and grey,
    We discovered I cannot tell _how_ far away;
    And I carried it back although weary and cold,
    For though father denies it, I'm sure it is gold.

    But of all of my treasures the last is the king,
    For there's very few children possess such a thing;
    And that is a chisel, both handle and blade,
    Which a man who was really a carpenter made.

BLOCK CITY

    What are you able to build with your blocks?
    Castles and palaces, temples and docks.
    Rain may keep raining and others go roam,
    But I can be happy and building at home.

    Let the sofa be mountains, the carpet be sea,
    There I'll establish a city for me:
    A kirk and a mill and a palace beside,
    And a harbor as well where my vessels may ride.

    Great is the palace with pillar and wall,
    A sort of a tower on the top of it all,
    And steps coming down in an orderly way
    To where my toy vessels lay safe in the bay.

    This one is sailing and that one is moored:
    Hark to the song of the sailors on board!
    And see the steps of my palace, the kings
    Coming and going with presents and things!

    Now I have done with it, down let it go!
    All in a moment the town is laid low.
    Block upon block lying scattered and free,
    What is there left of my town by the sea?

    Yet as I saw it, I see it again,
    The kirk and the palace, the ships and the men
    And as long as I live and where'er I may be,
    I'll always remember my town by the sea.

THE GARDENER

    The gardener does not love to talk,
    He makes me keep the gravel walk;
    And when he puts his tools away,
    He locks the door and takes the key.

    Away behind the currant row
    Where no one else but cook may go,
    Far in the plots, I see him dig,
    Old and serious, brown and big.

    He digs the flowers, green, red and blue,
    Nor wishes to be spoken to.
    He digs the flowers and cuts the hay,
    And never seems to want to play.

    Silly gardener! summer goes,
    And winter comes with pinching toes,
    When in the garden bare and brown
    You must lay your barrow down.

    Well now, and while the summer stays,
    To profit by these garden days,
    O how much wiser you would be
    To play at Indian wars with me!

Burns gives us:

  Ken ye aught o' Captain Grose?
      Igo and ago,
  If he's 'mang his freens or foes?
      Iram, coram, dago.
  Is he slain by Highlan' bodies?
      Igo and ago;
  And eaten like a weather haggis?
      Iram, coram, dago.

Another very old refrain runs thus:

  Forum, corum, sunt di-vorum,
      Harum, scarum, divo;
  Tag-rag, merry-derry, periwig and hat-band,
      Hic, hoc, horum, genitivo.

An old ballad written before the Reformation has for a refrain:

    Sing go trix,
      Trim go trix,
  Under the greenwood tree.

While a celebrated political ballad is known by its nonsense chorus,

  Lilliburlero bullin a-la.

Mother Goose rhymes abound in these nonsense refrains, and they are
often fine examples of onomatopoeia.

By far the most meritorious and most interesting kind of nonsense is
that which embodies an absurd or ridiculous idea, and treats it with
elaborate seriousness. The greatest masters of this art are
undoubtedly Edward Lear and Lewis Carroll. These Englishmen were men
of genius, deep thinkers, and hard workers.

Lear was an artist draughtsman, his subjects being mainly
ornithological and zoological. Lewis Carroll (Charles L. Dodgson)
was an expert in mathematics and a lecturer on that science in
Christ Church, Oxford.

Both these men numbered among their friends many of the greatest
Englishmen of the day. Tennyson was a warm friend and admirer of each,
as was also John Ruskin.

Lear's first nonsense verses, published in 1846, are written in the
form of the well-known stanza beginning:

  There was an old man of Tobago.

This type of stanza, known as the "Limerick," is said by a gentleman
who speaks with authority to have flourished in the reign of William
IV. This is one of several he remembers as current at his public
school in 1834:

  There was a young man at St. Kitts
  Who was very much troubled with fits;
      The eclipse of the moon
      Threw him into a swoon,
  When he tumbled and broke into bits.

Lear distinctly asserts that this form of verse was not invented by
him, but was suggested by a friend as a useful model for amusing
rhymes. It proved so in his case, for he published no less than two
hundred and twelve of these "Limericks."

In regard to his verses, Lear asserted that "nonsense, pure and
absolute," was his aim throughout; and remarked, further, that to
have been the means of administering innocent mirth to thousands was
surely a just excuse for satisfaction. He pursued his aim with
scrupulous consistency, and his absurd conceits are fantastic and
ridiculous, but never cheaply or vulgarly funny.

Twenty-five years after his first book came out, Lear published
other books of nonsense verse and prose, with pictures which are
irresistibly mirth-provoking. Lear's nonsense songs, while retaining
all the ludicrous merriment of his Limericks, have an added quality
of poetic harmony. They are distinctly _singable_, and many of them
have been set to music by talented composers. Perhaps the best-known
songs are "The Owl and the Pussy-Cat" and "The Daddy-Long-Legs and
the Fly."

Lear himself composed airs for "The Pelican Chorus" and "The
Yonghy-Bonghy Bo," which were arranged for the piano by Professor Pom,
of San Remo, Italy.

Although like Lear's in some respects, Lewis Carroll's nonsense is
perhaps of a more refined type. There is less of the grotesque and
more poetic imagery. But though Carroll was more of a poet than Lear,
both had the true sense of nonsense. Both assumed the most absurd
conditions, and proceeded to detail their consequences with a simple
seriousness that convulses appreciative readers, and we find
ourselves uncertain whether it is the manner or the matter that is
more amusing.

Lewis Carroll was a man of intellect and education; his funniest
sayings are often based on profound knowledge or deep thought. Like
Lear, he never spoiled his quaint fancies by over-exaggerating their
quaintness or their fancifulness, and his ridiculous plots are as
carefully conceived, constructed, and elaborated as though they
embodied the soundest facts. No funny detail is ever allowed to
become _too_ funny; and it is in this judicious economy of
extravagance that his genius is shown. As he remarks in one of his
own poems:

  Then, fourthly, there are epithets
      That suit with any word--
  As well as Harvey's Reading Sauce
      With fish, or flesh, or bird.
  Such epithets, like pepper,
      Give zest to what you write;
  And, if you strew them sparely,
      They whet the appetite;
  But if you lay them on too thick,
      You spoil the matter quite!

Both Lear and Carroll suffered from the undiscerning critics who
persisted in seeing in their nonsense a hidden meaning, a cynical,
political, or other intent, veiled under the apparent foolery. Lear
takes occasion to deny this in the preface to one of his books, and
asserts not only that his rhymes and pictures have no symbolical
meaning, but that he "took more care than might be supposed to make
the subjects incapable of such misinterpretation."

Likewise, "Jabberwocky" was declared by one critic to be a
translation from the German, and by others its originality was
doubted. The truth is, that it was written by Lewis Carroll at an
evening party; it was quite impromptu, and no ulterior meaning was
intended. "The Hunting of the Snark" was also regarded by some as an
allegory, or, perhaps, a burlesque on a celebrated case, in which
the _Snark_ was used as a personification of popularity, but Lewis
Carroll protested that the poem had no meaning at all.

A favorite trick of the Nonsensists is the coining of words to suit
their needs, and Lear and Carroll are especially happy in their
inventions of this kind.

Lear gives us such gems as scroobious, meloobious, ombliferous,
borascible, slobaciously, himmeltanious, flumpetty, and mumbian;
while the best of Lewis Carroll's coined words are those found in
"Jabberwocky."

Another of the great Nonsensists is W. S. Gilbert. Unlike Lear or
Carroll, his work is not characterized by absurd words or phrases;
he prefers a still wider scope, and invents a ridiculous plot. The
"Bab Ballads," as well as Mr. Gilbert's comic opera librettos, hinge
upon schemes of ludicrous impossibility, which are treated as the
most natural proceedings in the world. The best known of the
"Bab Ballads" is no doubt "The Yarn of the 'Nancy Bell,'" which was
long since set to music and is still a popular song. In addition to
his talent for nonsense, Mr. Gilbert possesses a wonderful rhyming
facility, and juggles cleverly with difficult and unusual metres.

In regard to his "Bab Ballads," Mr. Gilbert gravely says that
"they are not, as a rule, founded on fact," and, remembering their
gory and often cannibalistic tendencies, we are grateful for this
assurance. An instance of Gilbert's appreciation of other people's
nonsense is his parody of Lear's verse:

  There was an old man in a tree
  Who was horribly bored by a bee;
      When they said, "Does it buzz?"
      He replied, "Yes, it does!
  It's a regular brute of a bee!"

The parody attributed to Gilbert is called "A Nonsense Rhyme in
Blank Verse":

  There was an old man of St. Bees,
  Who was stung in the arm by a wasp;
      When they asked, "Does it hurt?"
      He replied, "No, it doesn't,
  But I thought all the while 'twas a Hornet!"

Thackeray wrote spirited nonsense, but much of it had an
under-meaning, political or otherwise, which bars it from the field
of sheer nonsense.

The sense of nonsense is no respecter of persons; even staid old
Dr. Johnson possessed it, though his nonsense verses are marked by
credible fact and irrefutable logic. Witness these two examples:

  As with my hat upon my head
      I walked along the Strand,
  I there did meet another man
      With his hat in his hand.

  The tender infant, meek and mild,
      Fell down upon the stone;
  The nurse took up the squealing child,
      But still the child squealed on.

The Doctor is also responsible for

  If a man who turnips cries,
      Cry not when his father dies,
  'Tis a proof that he would rather
      Have a turnip than a father.

And indeed, among our best writers there are few who have not
dropped into nonsense or semi-nonsense at one time or another.

A familiar bit of nonsense prose is by S. Foote, and it is said that
Charles Macklin used to recite it with great gusto:

  "She went into the garden to cut a cabbage-leaf to make
  an apple-pie, and at the same time a great she-bear coming
  up the street, pops its head into the shop. 'What, no
  soap?' so he died. She imprudently married the barber,
  and there were present the Pickaninnies, the Joblilies, the
  Gayrulies, and the Grand Panjandrum himself with the little
  round button on top, and they all fell to playing
       catch-as-catch-can
  till the gunpowder ran out at the heels of their
  boots."

[Transcriber's note: The above paragraph is not an excerpt from a

An old nonsense verse attributed to an Oxford student, is the well
known:

  A centipede was happy quite,
      Until a frog in fun
  Said, "Pray, which leg comes after which?"
  This raised her mind to such a pitch,
  She lay distracted in the ditch
      Considering how to run.

So far as we know, Kipling has never printed anything which can be
called nonsense verse, but it is doubtless only a question of time
when that branch shall be added to his versatility. His "Just So"
stories are capital nonsense prose, and the following rhyme proves
him guilty of at least one Limerick:

  There was a small boy of Quebec,
  Who was buried in snow to his neck;
      When they said, "Are you friz?"
      He replied, "Yes, I is--
  But we don't call this cold in Quebec."

Among living authors, one who has written a great amount of good
nonsense is Mr. Gelett Burgess, late editor of _The Lark_.

According to Mr. Burgess' own statement, the test of nonsense is its
quotability, and his work stands this test admirably, for what
absurd rhyme ever attained such popularity as his "Purple Cow"? This
was first printed in _The Lark_, a paper published in San
Francisco for two years, the only periodical of any merit that has
ever made intelligent nonsense its special feature.

Another of the most talented nonsense writers of to-day is Mr. Oliver
Herford. It is a pity, however, to reproduce his verse without his
illustrations, for as nonsense these are as admirable as the text.
But the greater part of Mr. Herford's work belongs to the realm
of pure fancy, and though of a whimsical delicacy often equal to
Lewis Carroll's, it is rarely sheer nonsense.

As a proof that good nonsense is by no means an easy achievement,
attention is called to a recent competition inaugurated by the
London _Academy_.

Nonsense rhymes similar to those quoted from _The Lark_ were asked
for, and though many were received, it is stated that no brilliant
results were among them.

The prize was awarded to this weak and uninteresting specimen:

  "If half the road was made of jam,
      The other half of bread,
  How very nice my walks would be,"
      The greedy infant said.

These two were also offered by competitors:

  I love to stand upon my head
      And think of things sublime
  Until my mother interrupts
      And says it's dinner-time.

  A lobster wooed a lady crab,
      And kissed her lovely face.
  "Upon my sole," the crabbess cried,
      "I wish you'd mind your plaice!"

Let us, then, give Nonsense its place among the divisions of Humor,
and though we cannot reduce it to an exact science, let us
acknowledge it as a fine art.

A NONSENSE ANTHOLOGY

JABBERWOCKY

  'Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
      Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
  All mimsy were the borogoves,
      And the mome raths outgrabe.

  "Beware the Jabberwock, my son!
      The jaws that bite, the claws that catch!
  Beware the Jubjub bird, and shun
      The frumious Bandersnatch!"

  He took his vorpal sword in hand:
      Long time the manxome foe he sought.
  So rested he by the Tumtum tree,
      And stood awhile in thought.

  And as in uffish thought he stood,
      The Jabberwock with eyes of flame,
  Came whiffling through the tulgey wood,
      And burbled as it came!

  One, two! One, two! And through, and through
      The vorpal blade went snicker-snack!
  He left it dead, and with its head
      He went galumphing back.

  "And hast thou slain the Jabberwock?
      Come to my arms, my beamish boy!
  Oh, frabjous day! Callooh! Callay!"
      He chortled in his joy.

  'T was brillig, and the slithy toves
      Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
  All mimsy were the borogoves
      And the mome raths outgrabe.

                          _Lewis Carroll_.

MORS IABROCHII

  Coesper[1] erat: tunc lubriciles[2] ultravia circum
      Urgebant gyros gimbiculosque tophi;
  Moestenui visae borogovides ire meatu;
      Et profugi gemitus exgrabure rathae.

  O fuge Iabrochium, sanguis meus![3] Ille recurvis
      Unguibus, estque avidis dentibus ille minax.
  Ububae fuge cautus avis vim, gnate! Neque unquam
      Faederpax contra te frumiosus eat!

  Vorpali gladio juvenis succingitur: hostis
      Manxumus ad medium quaeritur usque diem:
  Jamque vi fesso, sed plurima mente prementi,
      Tumtumiae frondis suaserat umbra moram.

  Consilia interdum stetit egnia[4] mene revolvens;
      At gravis in densa fronde susuffrus[5] erat,
  Spiculaque[6] ex oculis jacientis flammea, tulseam
      Per silvam venit burbur[7] labrochii!

  Vorpali, semel atque iterum collectus in ictum,
      Persnicuit gladis persnacuitque puer:
  Deinde galumphatus, spernens informe Cadaver,
      Horrendum monstri rettulit ipse caput.

  Victor Iabrochii, spoliis insignis opimis,
      Rursus in amplexus, o radiose, meos!
  O frabiose dies! CALLO clamateque CALLA!
      Vix potuit lastus chorticulare pater.

  Coesper erat: tune lubriciles ultravia circum
      Urgebant gyros gimbiculosque tophi;
  Moestenui vis borogovides ire meatu;
      Et profugi gemitus exgrabure rath.

                          _Anonymous_.

[Footnote 2: _lubriciles_ from _lubricus_ and _graciles_. See the
Commentary in Humpty Dumpty's square, which will also explain

[Footnote 3: _Sanguis meus_: cf. Verg. Aen. 6. 836, "Projice tela

[Footnote 4: _egnia_: "muffish" = segnis; ... "uffish" = egnis.

[Footnote 7: _burbur_: apparently a labial variation of _murmur_,

_THE NYUM-NYUM_

  The Nyum-Nyum chortled by the sea,
      And sipped the wavelets green:
  He wondered how the sky could be
      So very nice and clean;

  He wondered if the chambermaid
      Had swept the dust away,
  And if the scrumptious Jabberwock
      Had mopped it up that day.

  And then in sadness to his love
      The Nyum-Nyum weeping said,
  I know no reason why the sea
      Should not be white or red.

  I know no reason why the sea
      Should not be red, I say;
  And why the slithy Bandersnatch
      Has not been round to-day.

  He swore he'd call at two o'clock,
      And now it's half-past four.
  "Stay," said the Nyum-Nyum's love, "I think
      I hear him at the door."

  In twenty minutes in there came
      A creature black as ink,
  Which put its feet upon a chair
      And called for beer to drink.

  They gave him porter in a tub,
      But, "Give me more!" he cried;
  And then he drew a heavy sigh,
      And laid him down, and died.

  He died, and in the Nyum-Nyum's cave
      A cry of mourning rose;
  The Nyum-Nyum sobbed a gentle sob,
      And slily blew his nose.

  The Nyum-Nyum's love, we need not state,
      Was overwhelmed and sad;
  She said, "Oh, take the corpse away,
      Or you will drive me mad!"

  The Nyum-Nyum in his supple arms
      Took up the gruesome weight,
  And, with a cry of bitter fear,
      He threw it at his mate.

  And then he wept, and tore his hair,
      And threw it in the sea,
  And loudly sobbed with streaming eyes
      That such a thing could be.

  The ox, that mumbled in his stall,
      Perspired and gently sighed,
  And then, in sympathy, it fell
      Upon its back and died.

  The hen that sat upon her eggs,
      With high ambition fired,
  Arose in simple majesty,
      And, with a cluck, expired.

  The jubejube bird, that carolled there,
      Sat down upon a post,
  And with a reverential caw,
      Gave up its little ghost.

  And ere its kind and loving life
      Eternally had ceased,
  The donkey, in the ancient barn,
      In agony deceased.

  The raven, perched upon the elm,
      Gave forth a scraping note,
  And ere the sound had died away,
      Had cut its tuneful throat.

  The Nyum-Nyum's love was sorrowful;
      And, after she had cried,
  She, with a brand-new carving-knife,
      Committed suicide.

  "Alas!" the Nyum-Nyum said, "alas!
      With thee I will not part,"
  And straightway seized a rolling-pin
      And drove it through his heart.

  The mourners came and gathered up
      The bits that lay about;
  But why the massacre had been,
      They could not quite make out.

  One said there was a mystery
      Connected with the deaths;
  But others thought the silent ones
      Perhaps had lost their breaths.

  The doctor soon arrived, and viewed
      The corpses as they lay;
  He could not give them life again,
      So he was heard to say.

  But, oh! it was a horrid sight;
      It made the blood run cold,
  To see the bodies carried off
      And covered up with mould.

  The Toves across the briny sea
      Wept buckets-full of tears;
  They were relations of the dead,
      And had been friends for years.

  The Jabberwock upon the hill
      Gave forth a gloomy wail,
  When in his airy seat he sat,
      And told the awful tale.

  And who can wonder that it made
      That loving creature cry?
  For he had done the dreadful work
      And caused the things to die.

  That Jabberwock was passing bad--
      That Jabberwock was wrong,
  And with this verdict I conclude
      One portion of my song.

                          _Anonymous_.

UFFIA

  When sporgles spanned the floreate mead
      And cogwogs gleet upon the lea,
  Uffia gopped to meet her love
      Who smeeged upon the equat sea.

  Dately she walked aglost the sand;
      The boreal wind seet in her face;
  The moggling waves yalped at her feet;
      Pangwangling was her pace.

                          _Harriet R. White_.

SPIRK  TROLL-DERISIVE

  The Crankadox leaned o'er the edge of the moon,
      And wistfully gazed on the sea
  Where the Gryxabodill madly whistled a tune
      To the air of "Ti-fol-de-ding-dee."

  The quavering shriek of the Fliupthecreek
      Was fitfully wafted afar
  To the Queen of the Wunks as she powdered her cheek
      With the pulverized rays of a star.

  The Gool closed his ear on the voice of the Grig,
      And his heart it grew heavy as lead
  As he marked the Baldekin adjusting his wig
      On the opposite side of his head;

  And the air it grew chill as the Gryxabodill
      Raised his dank, dripping fins to the skies
  To plead with the Plunk for the use of her bill
      To pick the tears out of his eyes.

  The ghost of the Zhack flitted by in a trance;
      And the Squidjum hid under a tub
  As he heard the loud hooves of the Hooken advance
      With a rub-a-dub-dub-a-dub dub!

  And the Crankadox cried as he laid down and died,
      "My fate there is none to bewail!"
  While the Queen of the Wunks drifted over the tide
      With a long piece of crape to her tail.

                          _James Whitcomb Riley_.

THE WHANGO TREE

  The woggly bird sat on the whango tree,
      Nooping the rinkum corn,
  And graper and graper, alas! grew he,
      And cursed the day he was born.
  His crute was clum and his voice was rum,
      As curiously thus sang he,
  "Oh, would I'd been rammed and eternally clammed
      Ere I perched on this whango tree."

  Now the whango tree had a bubbly thorn,
      As sharp as a nootie's bill,
  And it stuck in the woggly bird's umptum lorn
      And weepadge, the smart did thrill.
  He fumbled and cursed, but that wasn't the worst,
      For he couldn't at all get free,
  And he cried, "I am gammed, and injustibly nammed
      On the luggardly whango tree."

  And there he sits still, with no worm in his bill,
      Nor no guggledom in his nest;
  He is hungry and bare, and gobliddered with care,
      And his grabbles give him no rest;
  He is weary and sore and his tugmut is soar,
      And nothing to nob has he,
  As he chirps,  "I am blammed and corruptibly jammed,
      In this cuggerdom whango tree."

                          _1840_.

SING FOR THE GARISH EYE

  Sing for the garish eye,
      When moonless brandlings cling!
  Let the froddering crooner cry,
      And the braddled sapster sing,
  For never and never again,
      Will the tottering beechlings play,
  For bratticed wrackers are singing aloud,
      And the throngers croon in May!

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.

THE CRUISE OF THE "P.C."

  Across the swiffling waves they went,
      The gumly bark yoked to and fro:
  The jupple crew on pleasure bent,
      Galored, "This is a go!"

  Beside the poo's'l stood the Gom,
      He chirked and murgled in his glee;
  While near him, in a grue jipon,
      The Bard was quite at sea.

  "Gollop! Golloy! Thou scrumjous Bard!
      Take pen (thy stylo) and endite
  A pome, my brain needs kurgling hard,
      And I will feast tonight."

  That wansome Bard he took his pen,
      A flirgly look around he guv;
  He squoffled once, he squirled, and then
      He wrote what's writ above.

                          _Anonymous_.

TO MARIE

  When the breeze from the bluebottle's blustering blim
      Twirls the toads in a tooroomaloo,
  And the whiskery whine of the wheedlesome whim
      Drowns the roll of the rattatattoo,
  Then I dream in the shade of the shally-go-shee,
      And the voice of the bally-molay
  Brings the smell of stale poppy-cods blummered in blee
      From the willy-wad over the way.

  Ah, the shuddering shoo and the blinketty-blanks
      When the yungalung falls from the bough
  In the blast of a hurricane's hicketty-hanks
      On the hills of the hocketty-how!
  Give the rigamarole to the clangery-whang,
      If they care for such fiddlededee;
  But the thingumbob kiss of the whangery-bang
      Keeps the higgledy-piggle for me.

  _L'ENVOI_

  It is pilly-po-doddle and aligobung
      When the lollypop covers the ground,
  Yet the poldiddle perishes punketty-pung
      When the heart jimmy-coggles around.
  If the soul cannot snoop at the giggle-some cart,
      Seeking surcease in gluggety-glug,
  It is useless to say to the pulsating heart,
      "Panky-doodle ker-chuggetty-chug!"

                          _John Bennett_.

_LUNAR STANZAS_

  Night saw the crew like pedlers with their packs
      Altho' it were too dear to pay for eggs;
  Walk crank along with coffin on their backs
      While in their arms they bow their weary legs.

  And yet 't was strange, and scarce can one suppose
      That a brown buzzard-fly should steal and wear
  His white jean breeches and black woollen hose,
      But thence that flies have souls is very clear.

  But, Holy Father! what shall save the soul,
      When cobblers ask three dollars for their shoes?
  When cooks their biscuits with a shot-tower roll,
      And farmers rake their hay-cocks with their hoes.

  Yet, 'twere profuse to see for pendant light,
      A tea-pot dangle in a lady's ear;
  And 'twere indelicate, although she might
      Swallow two whales and yet the moon shine clear.

  But what to me are woven clouds, or what,
      If dames from spiders learn to warp their looms?
  If coal-black ghosts turn soldiers for the State,
      With wooden eyes, and lightning-rods for plumes?

  Oh! too, too shocking! barbarous, savage taste!
      To eat one's mother ere itself was born!
  To gripe the tall town-steeple by the waste,
      And scoop it out to be his drinking-horn.

  No more: no more! I'm sick and dead and gone;
      Boxed in a coffin, stifled six feet deep;
  Thorns, fat and fearless, prick my skin and bone,
      And revel o'er me, like a soulless sheep.

                          _Henry Coggswell Knight, 1815_.

NONSENSE

  Oh that my Lungs could bleat like butter'd Pease;
      But bleating of my lungs hath Caught the itch,
  And are as mangy as the Irish Seas
      That offer wary windmills to the Rich.

  I grant that Rainbowes being lull'd asleep,
      Snort like a woodknife in a Lady's eyes;
  Which makes her grieve to see a pudding creep,
      For Creeping puddings only please the wise.

  Not that a hard-row'd herring should presume
      To swing a tyth pig in a Cateskin purse;
  For fear the hailstons which did fall at Rome,
      By lesning of the fault should make it worse.

  For 'tis most certain Winter woolsacks grow
      From geese to swans if men could keep them so,
  Till that the sheep shorn Planets gave the hint
      To pickle pancakes in Geneva print.

  Some men there were that did suppose the skie
      Was made of Carbonado'd Antidotes;
  But my opinion is, a Whale's left eye,
      Need not be coyned all King Harry groates.

  The reason's plain, for Charon's Westerne barge
      Running a tilt at the Subjunctive mood,
  Beckoned to Bednal Green, and gave him charge
      To fasten padlockes with Antartic food.

  The End will be the Mill ponds must be laded,
      To fish for white pots in a Country dance;
  So they that suffered wrong and were upbraded
      Shall be made friends in a left-handed trance.

                          _Anonymous, 1617_.

SONNET FOUND IN A DESERTED MAD HOUSE

  Oh that my soul a marrow-bone might seize!
  For the old egg of my desire is broken,
  Spilled is the pearly white and spilled the yolk, and
  As the mild melancholy contents grease
  My path the shorn lamb baas like bumblebees.
  Time's trashy purse is as a taken token
  Or like a thrilling recitation, spoken
  By mournful mouths filled full of mirth and cheese.

  And yet, why should I clasp the earthful urn?
  Or find the frittered fig that felt the fast?
  Or choose to chase the cheese around the churn?
  Or swallow any pill from out the past?
  Ah, no Love, not while your hot kisses burn
  Like a potato riding on the blast.

                          _Anonymous_.

THE OCEAN WANDERER

  Bright breaks the warrior o'er the ocean wave
  Through realms that rove not, clouds that cannot save,
  Sinks in the sunshine; dazzles o'er the tomb
  And mocks the mutiny of Memory's gloom.
  Oh! who can feel the crimson ecstasy
  That soothes with bickering jar the Glorious Tree?
  O'er the high rock the foam of gladness throws,
  While star-beams lull Vesuvius to repose:
  Girds the white spray, and in the blue lagoon,
  Weeps like a walrus o'er the waning moon?
  Who can declare?--not thou, pervading boy
  Whom pibrochs pierce not, crystals cannot cloy;--
  Not thou soft Architect of silvery gleams,
  Whose soul would simmer in Hesperian streams,
  Th' exhaustless fire--the bosom's azure bliss,
  That hurtles, life-like, o'er a scene like this;--
  Defies the distant agony of Day--
  And sweeps o'er hetacombs--away! away!
  Say shall Destruction's lava load the gale,
  The furnace quiver and the mountain quail?
  Say shall the son of Sympathy pretend
  His cedar fragrance with our Chiefs to blend?
  There, where the gnarled monuments of sand
  Howl their dark whirlwinds to the levin brand;
  Conclusive tenderness; fraternal grog,
  Tidy conjunction; adamantine bog,
  Impetuous arrant toadstool; Thundering quince,
  Repentant dog-star, inessential Prince,
  Expound. Pre-Adamite eventful gun,
  Crush retribution, currant-jelly, pun,
  Oh! eligible Darkness, fender, sting,
  Heav'n-born Insanity, courageous thing.
  Intending, bending, scouring, piercing all,
  Death like pomatum, tea, and crabs must fall.

                          _Anonymous_.

SHE'S ALL MY FANCY PAINTED HIM

  She's all my fancy painted him,
      (I make no idle boast);
  If he or you had lost a limb,
      Which would have suffered most?

  He said that you had been to her,
      And seen me here before:
  But, in another character
      She was the same of yore.

  There was not one that spoke to us,
      Of all that thronged the street;
  So he sadly got into a 'bus,
      And pattered with his feet.

  They told me you had been to her,
      And mentioned me to him;
  She gave me a good character,
      But said I could not swim.

  He sent them word I had not gone
      (We know it to be true);
  If she should push the matter on,
      What would become of you?

  I gave her one, they gave him two,
      You gave us three or more;
  They all returned from him to you,
      Though they were mine before.

  If I or she should chance to be
      Involved in this affair,
  He trusts to you to set them free,
      Exactly as we were.

  My notion was that you had been
      (Before she had this fit)
  An obstacle that came between
      Him, and ourselves, and it.

  Don't let him know she liked them best,
      For this must ever be
  A secret, kept from all the rest,
      Between yourself and me.

                          _Lewis Carroll_.

MY RECOLLECTEST THOUGHTS

  My recollectest thoughts are those
      Which I remember yet;
  And bearing on, as you'd suppose,
      The things I don't forget.

  But my resemblest thoughts are less
      Alike than they should be;
  A state of things, as you'll confess,
      You very seldom see.

  And yet the mostest thought I love
      Is what no one believes--
  That I'm the sole survivor of
      The famous Forty Thieves!

                          _Charles E. Carry_.

FATHER WILLIAM

  "You are old, Father William," the young man said,
      "And your nose has a look of surprise;
  Your eyes have turned round to the back of your head,
      And you live upon cucumber pies."

  "I know it, I know it," the old man replied,
      "And it comes from employing a quack,
  Who said if I laughed when the crocodile died
      I should never have pains in my back."

  "You are old, Father William," the young man said,
      "And your legs always get in your way;
  You use too much mortar in mixing your bread,
      And you try to drink timothy hay."

  "Very true, very true," said the wretched old man,
      "Every word that you tell me is true;
  And it's caused by my having my kerosene can
      Painted red where it ought to be blue."

  "You are old, Father William," the young man said,
      "And your teeth are beginning to freeze,
  Your favorite daughter has wheels in her head,
      And the chickens are eating your knees."

  "You are right," said the old man, "I cannot deny,
      That my troubles are many and great,
  But I'll butter my ears on the Fourth of July,
      And then I'll be able to skate."

                          _Anonymous_.

IN THE GLOAMING

  The twilight twiles in the vernal vale,
      In adumbration of azure awe,
  And I listlessly list in my swallow-tail
      To the limpet licking his limber jaw.
  And it's O for the sound of the daffodil,
      For the dry distillings of prawn and prout,
  When hope hops high and a heather hill
      Is a dear delight and a darksome doubt.
  The snagwap sits in the bosky brae
      And sings to the gumplet in accents sweet;
  The gibwink hasn't a word to say,
      But pensively smiles at the fair keeweet.

  And it's O for the jungles of Boorabul.
      For the jingling jungles to jangle in,
  With a moony maze of mellado mull,
      And a protoplasm for next of kin.
  O, sweet is the note of the shagreen shard
      And mellow the mew of the mastodon,
  When the soboliferous Somminard
      Is scenting the shadows at set of sun.
  And it's O for the timorous tamarind
      In the murky meadows of Mariboo,
  For the suave sirocco of Sazerkind,
      And the pimpernell pellets of Pangipoo.

                          _James C. Bayles_.

BALLAD OF BEDLAM

  Oh, lady, wake! the azure moon
      Is rippling in the verdant skies,
  The owl is warbling his soft tune,
      Awaiting but thy snowy eyes.

  The joys of future years are past,
      To-morrow's hopes have fled away;
  Still let us love, and e'en at last
      We shall be happy yesterday.

  The early beam of rosy night
      Drives off the ebon morn afar,
  While through the murmur of the light
      The huntsman winds his mad guitar.

  Then, lady, wake! my brigantine
      Pants, neighs, and prances to be free;
  Till the creation I am thine,
      To some rich desert fly with me.

                          _Punch_.

'TIS SWEET TO ROAM

  'Tis sweet to roam when morning's light
      Resounds across the deep;
  And the crystal song of the woodbine bright
      Hushes the rocks to sleep,
  And the blood-red moon in the blaze of noon
      Is bathed in a crumbling dew,
  And the wolf rings out with a glittering shout,
      To-whit, to-whit, to-whoo!

                          _Anonymous_.

HYMN TO THE SUNRISE

  The dreamy crags with raucous voices croon
      Across the zephyr's heliotrope career;
  I sit contentedly upon the moon
      And watch the sunlight trickle round the sphere.

  The shiny trill of jagged, feathered rocks
      I hear with glee as swift I fly away;
  And over waves of subtle, woolly flocks
      Crashes the breaking day!

                          _Anonymous_.

THE MOON IS UP

  The moon is up, the moon is up!
      The larks begin to fly,
  And, like a drowsy buttercup,
      Dark Phoebus skims the sky,
  The elephant, with cheerful voice,
      Sings blithely on the spray;
  The bats and beetles all rejoice,
      Then let me, too, be gay.

  I would I were a porcupine,
      And wore a peacock's tail;
  To-morrow, if the moon but shine,
      Perchance I'll be a whale.
  Then let me, like the cauliflower,
      Be merry while I may,
  And, ere there comes a sunny hour
      To cloud my heart, be gay!

                          _Anonymous_.

'TIS  MIDNIGHT

  'Tis midnight, and the setting sun
      Is slowly rising in the west;
  The rapid rivers slowly run,
      The frog is on his downy nest.
  The pensive goat and sportive cow,
      Hilarious, leap from bough to bough.

                          _Anonymous_.

UPRISING SEE THE FITFUL LARK

  Uprising see the fitful lark
      Unfold his pinion to the stream;
  The pensive watch-dog's mellow bark
      O'ershades yon cottage like a dream:
  The playful duck and warbling bee
  Hop gayly on, from tree to tree!

  How calmly could my spirit rest
      Beneath yon primrose bell so blue,
  And watch those airy oxen drest
      In every tint of pearling hue!
  As on they hurl the gladsome plough,
  While fairy zephyrs deck each brow!

                          _Anonymous_.

LIKE TO THE THUNDERING TONE

  Like to the thundering tone of unspoke speeches,
  Or like a lobster clad in logic breeches,
  Or like the gray fur of a crimson cat,
  Or like the mooncalf in a slipshod hat;
  E'en such is he who never was begotten
  Until his children were both dead and rotten.

  Like to the fiery tombstone of a cabbage,
  Or like a crab-louse with its bag and baggage,
  Or like the four square circle of a ring,
  Or like to hey ding, ding-a, ding-a, ding;
  E'en such is he who spake, and yet, no doubt,
  Spake to small purpose, when his tongue was out.

  Like to a fair, fresh, fading, wither'd rose,
  Or like to rhyming verse that runs in prose,
  Or like the stumbles of a tinder-box,
  Or like a man that's sound yet sickness mocks;
  E'en such is he who died and yet did laugh
  To see these lines writ for his epitaph.

                          _Bishop Corbet
                             in 17th century_.

MY  DREAM

  I dreamed a dream next Tuesday week,
      Beneath the apple-trees;
  I thought my eyes were big pork-pies,
      And my nose was Stilton cheese.
  The clock struck twenty minutes to six,
      When a frog sat on my knee;
  I asked him to lend me eighteenpence,
      But he borrowed a shilling of me.

                          _Anonymous_.

MY HOME

  My home is on the rolling deep,
  I spend my time a-feeding sheep;
  And when the waves on high are running,
  I take my gun and go a-gunning.
  I shoot wild ducks down deep snake-holes,
  And drink gin-sling from two-quart bowls.

                          _Anonymous_.

IN IMMEMORIAM

  We seek to know, and knowing seek;
      We seek, we know, and every sense
      Is trembling with the great intense,
  And vibrating to what we speak.

  We ask too much, we seek too oft;
      We know enough and should no more;
      And yet we skim through Fancy's lore,
  And look to earth and not aloft.

       *       *       *       *       *

  O Sea! whose ancient ripples lie
      On red-ribbed sands where seaweeds shone;
      O moon! whose golden sickle's gone,
  O voices all! like you I die!

                          _Cuthbert Bede_.

THE HIGHER PANTHEISM IN A NUTSHELL

  One, who is not, we see; but one, whom we see not, is;
    Surely, this is not that; but that is assuredly this.

  What, and wherefore, and whence: for under is over and under;
  If thunder could be without lightning, lightning could be without
       thunder.

  Doubt is faith in the main; but faith, on the whole, is doubt;
  We cannot believe by proof; but could we believe without?

  Why, and whither, and how? for barley and rye are not clover;
  Neither are straight lines curves; yet over is under and over.

  One and two are not one; but one and nothing is two;
  Truth can hardly be false, if falsehood cannot be true.

  Parallels  all  things are; yet many of these are askew;
  You are certainly I; but certainly I am not you.

  One, whom we see not, is; and one, who is not, we see;
  Fiddle, we know, is diddle; and diddle, we take it, is dee.

                          _A.C. Swinburne_.

DARWINITY

  Power to thine elbow, thou newest of sciences,
      All the old landmarks are ripe for decay;
  Wars are but shadows, and so are alliances,
      Darwin the great is the man of the day.

  All other 'ologies want an apology;
      Bread's a mistake--Science offers a stone;
  Nothing is true but Anthropobiology--
      Darwin the great understands it alone.

  Mighty the great evolutionist teacher is,
      Licking Morphology clean into shape;
  Lord! what an ape the Professor or Preacher is,
      Ever to doubt his descent from an ape.

  Man's an Anthropoid--he cannot help that, you know--
      First evoluted from Pongos of old;
  He's but a branch of the _catarrhine_ cat, you know--
      Monkey I mean--that's an ape with a cold.

  Fast dying out are man's later Appearances,
      Cataclysmitic Geologies gone;
  Now of Creation completed the clearance is,
      Darwin alone you must anchor upon.

  Primitive Life--Organisms were chemical,
      Busting spontaneous under the sea;
  Purely subaqueous, panaquademical,
      Was the original Crystal of Me.

  I'm the Apostle of mighty Darwinity,
      Stands for Divinity--sounds much the same--
  Apo-theistico-Pan-Asininity
      Only can doubt whence the lot of us came.

  Down on your knees, Superstition and Flunkeydom!
      Won't you accept such plain doctrines instead?
  What is so simple as primitive Monkeydom
      Born in the sea with a cold in its head?

                          _Herman Merivale_.

SONG OF THE SCREW

  A moving form or rigid mass,
        Under whate'er conditions
  Along successive screws must pass
        Between each two positions.
  It turns around and slides along--
  This is the burden of my song.

  The pitch of screw, if multiplied
        By angle of rotation,
  Will give the distance it must glide
        In motion of translation.
  Infinite pitch means pure translation,
  And zero pitch means pure rotation.

  Two motions on two given screws,
        With amplitudes at pleasure,
  Into a third screw-motion fuse;
        Whose amplitude we measure
  By parallelogram construction
  (A very obvious deduction.)

  Its axis cuts the nodal line
        Which to both screws is normal,
  And generates a form divine,
        Whose name, in language formal,
  Is "surface-ruled of third degree."
  Cylindroid is the name for me.

  Rotation round a given line
        Is like a force along.
  If to say couple you incline,
        You're clearly in the wrong;--
  'Tis obvious, upon reflection,
  A line is not a mere direction.

  So couples with translations too
        In all respects agree;
  And thus there centres in the screw
        A wondrous harmony
  Of Kinematics and of Statics,--
  The sweetest thing in mathematics.

  The forces on one given screw,
        With motion on a second,
  In general some work will do,
        Whose magnitude is reckoned
  By angle, force, and what we call
  The coefficient virtual.

  Rotation now to force convert,
        And force into rotation;
  Unchanged the work, we can assert,
        In spite of transformation.
  And if two screws no work can claim,
  Reciprocal will be their name.

  Five numbers will a screw define,
        A screwing motion, six;
  For four will give the axial line,
        One more the pitch will fix;
  And hence we always can contrive
  One screw reciprocal to five.

  Screws--two, three, four or five, combined
        (No question here of six),
  Yield other screws which are confined
        Within one screw complex.
  Thus we obtain the clearest notion
  Of freedom and constraint of motion.

  In complex III., three several screws
        At every point you find,
  Or if you one direction choose,
        One screw is to your mind;
  And complexes of order III.
  Their own reciprocals may be.

  In IV., wherever you arrive,
        You find of screws a cone,
  On every line in complex V.
        There is precisely one;
  At each point of this complex rich,
  A plane of screws have given pitch.

  But time would fail me to discourse
        Of Order and Degree;
  Of Impulse, Energy and Force,
        And Reciprocity.
  All these and more, for motions small,
  Have been discussed by Dr. Ball.

                          _Anonymous_.

MOORLANDS OF THE NOT

  Across the moorlands of the Not
      We chase the gruesome When;
  And hunt the Itness of the What
      Through forests of the Then.
  Into the Inner Consciousness
      We track the crafty Where;
  We spear the Ego tough, and beard
      The Selfhood in his lair.

  With lassos of the brain we catch
     The Isness of the Was;
  And in the copses of the Whence
      We hear the think bees buzz.
  We climb the slippery Whichbark tree
      To watch the Thusness roll
  And pause betimes in gnostic rimes
      To woo the Over Soul.

                          _Anonymous_.

METAPHYSICS

  Why and Wherefore set out one day
        To hunt for a wild Negation.
  They agreed to meet at a cool retreat
        On the Point of Interrogation.

  But the night was dark and they missed their mark,
        And, driven well-nigh to distraction,
  They lost their ways in a murky maze
        Of utter abstruse abstraction.

  Then they took a boat and were soon afloat
        On a sea of Speculation,
  But the sea grew rough, and their boat, though tough,
        Was split into an Equation.

  As they floundered about in the waves of doubt
        Rose a fearful Hypothesis,
  Who gibbered with glee as they sank in the sea,
        And the last they saw was this:

  On a rock-bound reef of Unbelief
        There sat the wild Negation;
  Then they sank once more and were washed ashore
        At the Point of Interrogation.

                          _Oliver Herford_.

ABSTROSOPHY

  If echoes from the fitful past
      Could rise to mental view,
  Would all their fancied radiance last
  Or would some odors from the blast,
      Untouched by Time, accrue?

  Is present pain a future bliss,
      Or is it something worse?
  For instance, take a case like this:
  Is fancied kick a real kiss,
      Or rather the reverse?

  Is plenitude of passion palled
      By poverty of scorn?
  Does Fiction mend where Fact has mauled?
  Has Death its wisest victims called
      When idiots are born?

                          _Gelett Burgess_.

ABSTEMIA

    _In Mystic_ Argot _often Confounded with Farrago_

  If aught that stumbles in my speech
      Or stutters in my pen,
  Or, claiming tribute, each to each,
      Rise, not to fall again,
  Let something lowlier far, for me,
      Through evanescent shades--
  Than which my spirit might not be
      Nourished in fitful ecstasy
  Not less to know but more to see
      Where that great Bliss pervades.

                          _Gelett Burgess_.

PSYCHOLOPHON

    _Supposed to be Translated from the Old Parsee_

  Twine then the rays
      Round her soft Theban tissues!
  All will be as She says,
      When that dead past reissues.
  Matters not what nor where,
      Hark, to the moon's dim cluster!
  How was her heavy hair
      Lithe as a feather duster!
  Matters not when nor whence;
      Flittertigibbet!
  Sounds make the song, not sense,
      Thus I inhibit!

                          _Gelett Burgess_.

TIMON OF ARCHIMEDES

  As one who cleaves the circumambient air
      Seeking in azure what it lacks in space,
      And sees a young and finely chiselled face
  Filled with foretastes of wisdom yet more rare;
  Touching and yet untouched--unmeasured grace!
      A breathing credo and a living prayer--
      Yet of the earth, still earthy; debonair
  The while in heaven it seeketh for a place.

  So thy dear eyes and thy kind lips but say--
      Ere from his cerements Timon seems to flit:
        "What of the reaper grim with sickle keen?"
  And then the sunlight ushers in new day
      And for our tasks our bodies seem more fit--
        "Might of the night, unfleeing, sight unseen."

                          _Charles Battell Loomis_.

ALONE

  Alone! Alone!
  I sit in the solitudes of the moonshades,
  Soul-hungering in the moonshade solitudes sit I--
  My heart-lifts beaten down in the wild wind-path.
  Oppressed, and scourged and beaten down are my heart-lifts.
  I fix my gaze on the eye-star, and the eye-star flings its dart
       upon me.
  I wonder why my soul is lost in wonder why I am,
  And why the eye-star mocks me,
  Why the wild wind beats down my heart-lifts;
  Why I am stricken here in the moonshade solitudes.
  Oh! why am I what I am,
  And why am I anything?
  Am I not as wild as the wind and more crazy?
  Why do I sit in the moonshade, while the eye-star mocks me while I
       ask what I am?

  Why? Why?

                          _Anonymous_.

LINES BY A MEDIUM

  I might not, if I could;
      I should not, if I might;
  Yet if I should I would,
      And, shoulding, I should quite!

  I must not, yet I may;
      I can, and still I must;
  But ah! I cannot--nay,
      To must I may not, just!

  I shall, although I will,
      But be it understood,
  If I may, can, shall--still
      I might, could, would, or should!

                          _Anonymous_.

TRANSCENDENTALISM

  It is told, in Buddhi-theosophic schools,
            There are rules,
  By observing which, when mundane labor irks
        One can simulate quiescence
        By a timely evanescence
        From his Active Mortal Essence,
            (Or his Works.)

  The particular procedure leaves research
            In the lurch,
  But, apparently, this matter-moulded form
        Is a kind of outer plaster,
        Which a well-instructed Master
        Can remove without disaster
            When he's warm.

  And to such as mourn an Indian Solar Clime
            At its prime
  'Twere a thesis most immeasurably fit,
        So expansively elastic,
        And so plausibly fantastic,
        That one gets enthusiastic
            For a bit.

                          _From the Times of India_.

INDIFFERENCE

  In loopy links the canker crawls,
      Tads twiddle in their 'polian glee,
  Yet sinks my heart as water falls.
  The loon that laughs, the babe that bawls,
  The wedding wear, the funeral palls,
      Are neither here nor there to me.
        Of life the mingled wine and brine
      I sit and sip pipslipsily.

                          _Anonymous_.

HEART-FOAM

  Oh! to be wafted away
  From this black Aceldama of sorrow,
  Where the dust of an earthy to-day
  Makes the earth of a dusty to-morrow.

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.

COSSIMBAZAR

  Come fleetly, come fleetly, my hookabadar,
  For the sound of the tam-tam is heard from afar.
  "Banoolah! Banoolah!"   The Brahmins are nigh,
  And the depths of the jungle re-echo their cry.
      _Pestonjee Bomanjee_!
      Smite the guitar;
  Join in the chorus, my hookabadar.

  Heed not the blast of the deadly monsoon,
  Nor the blue Brahmaputra that gleams in the moon.
  Stick to thy music, and oh, let the sound
  Be heard with distinctness a mile or two round.
      _Famsetjee, Feejeebhoy_!
      Sweep the guitar.
  Join in the chorus, my hookabadar.

  Art thou a Buddhist, or dost thou indeed
  Put faith in the monstrous Mohammedan creed?
  Art thou a Ghebir--a blinded Parsee?
  Not that it matters an atom to me.
      _Cursetjee Bomanjee_!
      Twang the guitar
  Join in the chorus, my hookabadar.

                          _Henry S. Leigh_.

_THE PERSONIFIED SENTIMENTAL_

  Affection's charm no longer gilds
      The idol of the shrine;
  But cold Oblivion seeks to fill
      Regret's ambrosial wine.
  Though Friendship's offering buried lies
      'Neath cold Aversion's snow,
  Regard and Faith will ever bloom
      Perpetually below.

  I see thee whirl in marble halls,
      In Pleasure's giddy train,
  Remorse is never on that brow,
      Nor Sorrow's mark of pain.
  Deceit has marked thee for her own;
      Inconstancy the same;
  And Ruin wildly sheds its gleam
      Athwart thy path of shame.

                          _Bret Harte_.

A CLASSIC ODE

  Oh, limpid stream of Tyrus, now I hear
      The pulsing wings of Armageddon's host,
  Clear as a colcothar and yet more clear--
      (Twin orbs, like those of  which  the Parsees boast;)

  Down in thy pebbled deeps in early spring
      The dimpled naiads sport, as in the time
  When Ocidelus with untiring wing
      Drave teams of prancing tigers, 'mid the chime

  Of all the bells of Phicol. Scarcely one
      Peristome veils its beauties now, but then--
  Like nascent diamonds, sparkling in the sun,
      Or sainfoin, circinate, or moss in marshy fen.

  Loud as the blasts of Tubal, loud and strong,
      Sweet as the songs of Sappho, aye more sweet;
  Long as the spear of Arnon, twice as long,
      What time he hurled it at King Pharaoh's feet.

                          _Charles Battell Loomis_.

WHERE AVALANCHES WAIL

  Where avalanches wail, and green Distress
  Sweeps o'er the pallid beak of loveliness:
  Where melancholy Sulphur holds her sway:
  And cliffs of conscience tremble and obey;

  And where Tartarean rattle snakes expire;
  Twisting like tendrils of a hero's pyre?
  No! dancing in the meteor's hall of power,
  See, Genius ponders o'er Affection's tower!
  A form of thund'ring import soars on high,
  Hark! 'tis the gore of infant melody:
  No more shall verdant Innocence amuse
  The lips that death-fraught Indignation glues;--
  Tempests shall teach the trackless tide of thought.
  That undiminish'd senselessness is naught;
  Freedom shall glare; and oh! ye links divine,
  The Poet's heart shall quiver in the brine.

                          _Anonymous_

BLUE MOONSHINE

  Mingled aye with fragrant yearnings,
      Throbbing in the mellow glow,
  Glint the silvery spirit-burnings,
      Pearly blandishments of woe.

  Aye! forever and forever,
      Whilst the love-lorn censers sweep,
  Whilst the jasper winds dissever
      Amber-like the crystal deep,

  Shall the soul's delirious slumber,
      Sea-green vengeance of a kiss,
  Teach despairing crags to number
      Blue infinities of bliss.

                          _Francis G. Stokes_.

NONSENSE

  Good reader, if you e'er have seen,
        When Phoebus hastens to his pillow,
        The mermaids with their tresses green
      Dancing upon the western billow;
        If you have seen at twilight dim,
        When the lone spirit's vesper hymn
      Floats wild along the winding shore,
  The fairy train their ringlets weave
      Glancing along the spangled green;--
        If you have seen all this, and more,
      God bless me! what a deal you've seen!

                          _Thomas Moore_.

SUPERIOR NONSENSE VERSES

  He comes with herald clouds of dust;
      Ecstatic frenzies rend his breast;
  A moment, and he graced the earth--
      Now, seek him at the eagle's nest.

  Hark! see'st thou not the torrent's flash
      Far shooting o'er the mountain height?
  Hear'st not the billow's solemn roar,
      That echoes through the vaults of night?

  Anon the murky cloud is riven,
      The lightnings leap in sportive play,
  And through the clanging doors of heaven,
      In calm effulgence bursts the day.

  Hope, peering from her fleecy car,
      Smiles welcome to the coming spring,
  And birds with blithesome songs of praise
      Make every grove and valley ring.

  What though on pinions of the blast
      The sea-gulls sweep with leaden flight?
  What though the watery caverns deep
      Gleam ghostly on the wandering sight?

  Is there no music in the trees
      To charm thee with its frolic mirth?
  Must Care's wan phantom still beguile
      And chain thee to the stubborn earth?

  Lo! Fancy from her magic realm
      Pours Boreal gleams adown the pole.
  The tidal currents lift and swell--
      Dead currents of the ocean's soul.

  Yet never may their mystic streams
      Breathe whispers of the mournful past,
  Or Pallas wake her sounding lyre
      Mid Ether's columned temples vast.

  Grave History walks again the earth
      As erst it did in days of eld,
  When seated on the golden throne
      Her hand a jewelled sceptre held.

  The Delphian oracle is dumb,
      Dread Cumae wafts no words of fate,
  To fright the eager souls that press
      Through sullen Lethe's iron gate.

  But deeper shadows gather o'er
      The vales that sever night and morn;
  And darkness folds with brooding wing
      The rustling fields of waving corn.

  Then issuing from his bosky lair
      The crafty tiger crouches low,
  Or thunders from the frozen north
      The white bear lapped in Arctic snow.

  Thus shift the scenes till high aloft
      The young moon sets her crescent horn,
  And in gray evening's emerald sea
      The beauteous Star of Love is born.

                          _Anonymous_.

WHEN MOONLIKE ORE THE HAZURE SEAS

  When moonlike ore the hazure seas
      In soft effulgence swells,
  When silver jews and balmy breaze
      Bend down the Lily's bells;

  When calm and deap, the rosy sleap
      Has lapt your soal in dreems,
  R Hangeline!  R lady mine!
      Dost thou remember Jeames?

  I mark thee in the Marble all,
      Where England's loveliest shine--
  I say the fairest of them hall
      Is Lady Hangeline.

  My soul, in desolate eclipse,
      With recollection teems--
  And then I hask, with weeping lips,
      Dost thou remember Jeames?

  Away! I may not tell thee hall
      This soughring heart endures--
  There is a lonely sperrit-call
      That Sorrow never cures;

  There is a little, little Star,
      That still above me beams;
  It is the Star of Hope--but ar!
      Dost thou remember Jeames?

                          _W.M. Thackeray_.

LINES BY A PERSON OF QUALITY

  Fluttering spread thy purple pinions,
      Gentle Cupid, o'er my heart,
  I a slave in thy dominions,
      Nature must give way to art.

  Mild Arcadians, ever blooming,
      Nightly nodding o'er your flocks,
  See my weary days consuming,
      All beneath yon flowery rocks.

  Thus the Cyprian goddess weeping,
      Mourned Adonis, darling youth:
  Him the boar, in silence creeping,
      Gored with unrelenting tooth.

  Cynthia, tune harmonious numbers;
      Fair Discretion, tune the lyre;
  Soothe my ever-waking slumbers;
      Bright Apollo, lend thy choir.

  Gloomy Pluto, king of terrors,
      Armed in adamantine chains,
  Lead me to the crystal mirrors,
      Watering soft Elysian plains.

  Mournful Cypress, verdant willow,
      Gilding my Aurelia's brows,
  Morpheus, hovering o'er my pillow,
      Hear me pay my dying vows.

  Melancholy, smooth Maeander,
      Swiftly purling in a round,
  On thy margin lovers wander
      With thy flowery chaplets crowned.

  Thus when Philomela, drooping,
      Softly seeks her silent mate,
  So the bird of Juno stooping;
      Melody resigns to fate.

                          _Alexander Pope_.

FRANGIPANNI

  Untwine those ringlets! Ev'ry dainty clasp
      That shines like twisted sunlight in my eye
  Is but the coiling of the jewelled asp
      That smiles to see men die.

  Oh, cobra-curld! Fierce-fanged fair one! Draw
      Night's curtain o'er the landscape of thy hair!
  I yield! I kneel! I own, I bless thy law
      That dooms me to despair.

  I mark the crimson ruby of thy lips,
      I feel the witching weirdness of thy breath!
  I droop! I sink into my soul's eclipse,--
      I fall in love with death!

  And yet, vouchsafe a moment! I would gaze
      Once more into those sweetly-murderous eyes,
  Soft glimmering athwart the pearly haze
      That smites to dusk the skies.

  Hast thou no pity? Must I darkly tread
      The unknown paths that lead me wide from thee?
  Hast thou no garland for this aching head
      That soon so low must be?

  No sound? No sigh? No smile? Is _all_ forgot?
      Then spin my shroud out of that golden skein
  Thou callst thy tresses! _I_ shall stay thee not--
      My struggles were but vain!

  But shall I see thee far beyond the sun,
      When the new dawn lights Empyrean scenes?
  What matters now? I know the poem's done,
      And wonder what the dickens it all means!

                          _Anonymous_.

LINES BY A FOND LOVER

  Lovely maid, with rapture swelling,
      Should these pages meet thine eye,
  Clouds of absence soft dispelling;--
      Vacant memory heaves a sigh.

  As the rose, with fragrance weeping,
      Trembles to the tuneful wave,
  So my heart shall twine unsleeping,
      Till it canopies the grave.

  Though another's smile's requited,
      Envious fate my doom should be;
  Joy forever disunited,
      Think, ah! think, at times on me!

  Oft, amid the spicy gloaming,
      Where the brakes their songs instil,
  Fond affection silent roaming,
      Loves to linger by the rill--

  There, when echo's voice consoling,
      Hears the nightingale complain,
  Gentle sighs my lips controlling,
      Bind my soul in beauty's chain.

  Oft in slumber's deep recesses,
      I thy mirror'd image see;
  Fancy mocks the vain caresses
      I would lavish like a bee!

  But how vain is glittering sadness!
      Hark, I hear distraction's knell!
  Torture gilds my heart with madness!
      Now forever fare thee well!

                          _Anonymous_.

FORCING A WAY

  How many strive to force a way
  Where none can go save those who pay,
  To verdant plains of soft delight
  The homage of the silent night,
  When countless stars from pole to pole
  Around the earth unceasing roll
  In roseate shadow's silvery hue,
  Shine forth and gild the morning dew.

  And must we really part for good,
  But meet again here where we've stood?
  No more delightful trysting-place,
  We've watched sweet Nature's smiling face.
  No more the landscape's lovely brow,
  Exchange our mutual breathing vow.
  Then should the twilight draw around
  No loving interchange of sound.

  Less for renown than innate love,
  These to my wish must recreant prove;
  Nor whilst an impulse here remain,
  Can ever hope the soul to gain;
  For memory scanning all the past,
  Relaxes her firm bonds at last,
  And gives to candor all the grace
  The heart can in its temple trace.

                          _Anonymous_.

THY HEART

  Thy heart is like some icy lake,
      On whose cold brink I stand;
  Oh, buckle on my spirit's skate,
  And lead, thou living saint, the way
      To where the ice is thin--
  That it may break beneath my feet
      And let a lover in!

                          _Anonymous_.

A LOVE-SONG BY A LUNATIC

  There's not a spider in the sky,
      There's not a glowworm in the sea,
  There's not a crab that soars on high,
      But bids me dream, dear maid, of thee!

  When watery Phoebus ploughs the main,
      When fiery Luna gilds the lea,
  As flies run up the window-pane,
      So fly my thoughts, dear love, to thee!

                          _Anonymous_.

THE PARTERRE

  I don't know any greatest treat
      As sit him in a gay parterre,
  And sniff one up the perfume sweet
      Of every roses buttoning there.

  It only want my charming miss
      Who make to blush the self red rose;
  Oh! I have envy of to kiss
      The end's tip of her splendid nose.

  Oh! I have envy of to be
      What grass 'neath her pantoffle push,
  And too much happy seemeth me
      The margaret which her vestige crush.

  But I will meet her nose at nose,
      And take occasion for her hairs,
  And indicate her all my woes,
      That she in fine agree my prayers.

  THE ENVOY
  I don't know any greatest treat
      As sit him in a gay parterre,
  With Madame who is too more sweet
      Than every roses buttoning there.

                          _E.H. Palmer_

TO MOLLIDUSTA

  When gooseberries grow on the stem of a daisy,
      And plum-puddings roll on the tide to the shore,
  And julep is made from the curls of a jazey,
      Oh, then, Mollidusta, I'll love thee no more.

  When steamboats no more on the Thames shall be going,
      And a cast-iron bridge reach Vauxhall from the Nore,
  And the Grand Junction waterworks cease to be flowing,
      Oh, then, Mollidusta, I'll love thee no more.

                          _Planch_.

JOHN JONES

  _At the Piano_

  I

  Love me and leave me; what love bids retrieve me? can June's fist
       grasp May?
  Leave me and love me; hopes eyed once above me like spring's
       sprouts, decay;
  Fall as the snow falls, when summer leaves grow false--cards
       packed for storm's play!

  II

  Nay, say Decay's self be but last May's elf, wing shifted, eye
       sheathed--
  Changeling in April's crib rocked, who lets 'scape rills locked
       fast since frost breathed--
  Skin cast (think!) adder-like, now bloom bursts bladder-like,--
       bloom frost bequeathed?

  III

  Ah, how can fear sit and hear as love hears it grief's heart's
       cracked grate's screech?
  Chance lets the gate sway that opens on hate's way and shews on
       shame's beach
  Crouched like an imp sly change watch sweet love's shrimps lie, a
       toothful in each.

  IV

  Time feels his tooth slip on husks wet from Truth's lip, which
       drops them and grins--
  Shells where no throb stirs of life left in lobsters since joy
       thrilled their fins--
  Hues of the pawn's tail or comb that makes dawn stale, so red for
       our sins!

  V

  Leaves love last year smelt now feel dead love's tears melt--flies
       caught in time's mesh!
  Salt are the dews in which new time breeds new sin, brews blood
       and stews flesh;
  Next year may see dead more germs than this weeded and reared them
       afresh.

  Old times left perish, new time to cherish; life just shifts its
       tune;
  As, when the day dies, half afraid, eyes the growth of the moon;
  Love me and save me, take me or waive me; death takes one so soon!

                          _A.C. Swinburne_.

_THE OWL AND THE PUSSY-CAT_

  The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to sea
      In a beautiful pea-green boat:
  They took some honey, and plenty of money
      Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
  The Owl looked up to the stars above,
      And sang to a small guitar,
  "Oh, lovely Pussy, oh, Pussy, my love,
      What a beautiful Pussy you are,
              You are,
              You are!
      What a beautiful Pussy you are!"

  Pussy said to the Owl, "You elegant fowl,
      How charmingly sweet you sing!
  Oh, let us be married; too long we have tarried:
      But what shall we do for a ring?"
  They sailed away for a year and a day,
      To the land where the bong-tree grows;
  And there in the wood a Piggy-wig stood,
      With a ring at the end of his nose,
              His nose,
              His nose,
      With a ring at the end of his nose.

  "Dear Pig, are you willing to sell for one shilling
      Your ring?" Said the Piggy, "I will."
  So they took it away and were married next day
      By the Turkey who lives on the hill.
  They dined on mince and slices of quince,
      Which they ate with a runcible spoon;
  And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,
      They danced by the light of the moon,
              The moon,
              The moon,
      They danced by the light of the moon.

                          _Edward Lear_.

A BALLADE OF THE NURSERIE

  She hid herself in the _soire_ kettle
      Out of her Ma's way, wise, wee maid!
  Wan was her lip as the lily's petal,
      Sad was the smile that over it played.
      Why doth she warble not? Is she afraid
  Of the hound that howls, or the moaning mole?
      Can it be on an errand she hath delayed?
  Hush thee, hush thee, dear little soul!

  The nightingale sings to the nodding nettle
      In the gloom o' the gloaming athwart the glade:
  The zephyr sighs soft on Popcataptl,
      And Auster is taking it cool in the shade:
      Sing, hey, for a _gutta serenade_!
  Not mine to stir up a storied pole,
      No noses snip with a bluggy blade--
  Hush thee, hush thee, dear little soul!

  Shall I bribe with a store of minted metal?
      With Everton toffee thee persuade?
  That thou in a kettle thyself shouldst settle,
      When grandly and gaudily all arrayed!
      Thy flounces 'ill foul and fangles fade.
  Come out, and Algernon Charles 'ill roll
      Thee safe and snug in Plutonian plaid--
  Hush thee, hush thee, dear little soul!

  ENVOI

      When nap is none and raiment frayed,
  And winter crowns the puddered poll,
      A kettle sings ane soote ballade--
  Hush thee, hush thee, dear little soul.

                          _John Twig_.

_A BALLAD OF HIGH ENDEAVOR_

  Ah Night! blind germ of days to be,
      Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  What wail of smitten strings hear we?
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Hey diddle dee_!)

  Ravished by clouds our Lady Moon,
      Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  Sinks swooning in a lady-swoon
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Dum diddle dee_!)

  What profits it to rise i' the dark?
      Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  If love but over-soar its mark
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Hey diddle dee_!)

  What boots to fall again forlorn?
      Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  Scorned by the grinning hound of scorn,
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Dum diddle dee_!)

  Art thou not greater who art less?
       Ah me! ah me!
      (Sweet Venus, mother!)
  Low love fulfilled of low success?
      (Ah me! ah me!
                _Hey diddle dee_!)

                          _Anonymous_.

THE LUGUBRIOUS WHING-WHANG

  Out on the margin of moonshine land,
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs,
  Out where the whing-whang loves to stand,
  Writing his name with his tail on the sand,
  And wiping it out with his oogerish hand;
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs.

  Is it the gibber of gungs and keeks?
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs,
  Or what _is_ the sound the whing-whang seeks,
  Crouching low by the winding creeks,
  And holding his breath for weeks and weeks?
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs.

  Aroint him the wraithest of wraithly things!
        Tickle me, love, in these lonesome ribs,
  'Tis a fair whing-whangess with phosphor rings,
  And bridal jewels of fangs and stings,

                          _James W. Riley_

OH! WEARY MOTHER

  The lilies lie in my lady's bower,
      (Oh! weary mother, drive the cows to roost;)
  They faintly droop for a little hour;
  My lady's head droops like a flower.

  She took the porcelain in her hand,
      (Oh! weary mother, drive the cows to roost;)
  She poured; I drank at her command;
  Drank deep, and now--you understand!
      (Oh! weary mother, drive the cows to roost.)

                          _Barry Pain_.

SWISS AIR

  I'm a gay tra, la, la,
  With my fal, lal, la, la,
  And my bright--
  And my light--

  Then laugh, ha, ha, ha,
  And ring, ting, ling, ling,
  And sing, fal, la, la,

                          _Bret Harte_.

_THE BULBUL_

  The bulbul hummeth like a book
      Upon the pooh-pooh tree,
  And now and then he takes a look
      At you and me,
      At me and you.
        Kuchi!
        Kuchoo!

                          _Owen Seaman_.

_BALLAD_

  _With an Ancient Refrain_

  O stoodent A has gone and spent,
  With a hey-lililu and a how-low-lan
  All his money to a Cent,
  And the birk and the broom blooms bonny.

  His Creditors he could not pay,
  With a hey-lililu and a how-low-lan,
  And Prison proved a shock to A,
  And the birk and the broom blooms bonny.

                          _Anonymous_.

OH, MY GERALDINE

  Oh, my Geraldine,
        No flow'r was ever seen so toodle um.
        You are my lum ti toodle lay,
            Pretty, pretty queen,
  Is rum ti Geraldine and something teen,
  More sweet than tiddle lum in May.
        Like the star so bright
        That somethings all the night,
            My Geraldine!
  You're fair as the rum ti lum ti sheen,
        Hark! there is what--ho!
        From something--um, you know,
            Dear, what I mean.
  Oh! rum! tum!! tum!!! my Geraldine.

                          _F.C. Burnand_.

BUZ, QUOTH THE BLUE FLY

  Buz, quoth the blue fly,
      Hum, quoth the bee,
  Buz and hum they cry,
      And so do we:
  In his ear, in his nose, thus, do you see?
  He ate the dormouse, else it was he.

                          _Ben Jonson
                             in "The Masque of Oberon_."

A SONG  ON  KING  WILLIAM  III

  As I walked by myself,
  And talked to myself,
      Myself said unto me,
  Look to thyself,
  Take care of thyself,
      For nobody cares for thee.

  I answered myself,
  And said to myself,
      In the self-same repartee,
  Look to thyself,
  Or not look to thyself,
      The selfsame thing will be.

                          _Anonymous_.

THERE WAS A MONKEY

  There was a monkey climbed up a tree,
  When he fell down, then down fell he.

  There was a crow sat on a stone,
  When he was gone, then there was none.

  There was an old wife did eat an apple,
  When she had eat two, she had eat a couple.

  There was a horse going to the mill,
  When he went on, he stood not still.

  There was a butcher cut his thumb,
  When it did bleed, then blood did come.

  There was a lackey ran a race,
  When he ran fast, he ran apace.

  There was a cobbler clouting shoon,
  When they were mended, they were done.

  There was a chandler making candle,
  When he them strip, he did them handle.

  There was a navy went into Spain,
  When it returned, it came again.

                          _Anonymous, 1626_.

THE GUINEA  PIG

  There was a little Guinea-pig,
  Who, being little, was not big;
  He always walked upon his feet,
  And never fasted when he eat.

  When from a place he ran away,
  He never at that place did stay;
  And while he ran, as I am told,
  He ne'er stood still for young or old.

  He often squeaked, and sometimes vi'lent,
  And when he squeaked he ne'er was silent:
  Though ne'er instructed by a cat,
  He knew a mouse was not a rat.

  One day, as I am certified,
  He took a whim, and fairly died;
  And as I'm told by men of sense,
  He never has been living since!

                          _Anonymous_.

THREE CHILDREN

  Three children sliding on the ice
      Upon a summer's day,
  As it fell out they all fell in,
      The rest they ran away.

  Now, had these children been at home,
      Or sliding on dry ground,
  Ten thousand pounds to one penny
      They had not all been drowned.

  You parents all that children have,
      And you too that have none,
  If you would have them safe abroad
      Pray keep them safe at home.

                          _London, 1662_

_IF_

  If all the land were apple-pie,
      And all the sea were ink;
  And all the trees were bread and cheese,
      What should we do for drink?

                          _Anonymous_.

_A RIDDLE_

  The man in the wilderness asked of me
  How many strawberries grew in the sea.
  I answered him as I thought good,
  As many as red herrings grow in the wood.

                          _Anonymous_.

_THREE JOVIAL HUNTSMEN_

  There were three jovial huntsmen,
      As I have heard them say,
  And they would go a-hunting
      All on a summer's day.

  All the day they hunted,
      And nothing could they find
  But a ship a-sailing,
      A-sailing with the wind.

  One said it was a ship,
      The other said Nay;
  The third said it was a house
      With the chimney blown away.

  And all the night they hunted,
      And nothing could they find;
  But the moon a-gliding,
      A-gliding with the wind.

  One said it was the moon,
      The other said Nay;
  The third said it was a cheese,
      And half o't cut away.

                          _Anonymous_.

THREE ACRES OF LAND

  My father left me three acres of land,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  My father left me three acres of land,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

  I ploughed it with a ram's horn,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  And sowed it all over with one peppercorn.
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

  I harrowed it with a bramble bush,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  And reaped it with my little penknife,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

  I got the mice to carry it to the barn,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  And thrashed it with a goose's quill,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

  I got the cat to carry it to the mill,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
  The miller he swore he would have her paw,
  And the cat she swore she would scratch his face,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

                          _Anonymous_.

MASTER AND MAN

  Master I have, and I am his man,
      Gallop a dreary dun;
  Master I have, and I am his man,
  And I'll get a wife as fast as I can;
  With a heighly gaily gamberally,
      Higgledy piggledy, niggledy, niggledy,
      Gallop a dreary dun.

                          _Anonymous_.

HYDER IDDLE

  Hyder iddle diddle dell,
  A yard of pudding is not an ell;
  Not forgetting tweedle-dye,
  A tailor's goose will never fly.

                          _Anonymous_.

KING ARTHUR

  When good King Arthur ruled the land,
      He was a goodly king:
  He stole three pecks of barley meal,
      To make a bag-pudding.

  A bag-pudding the king did make,
      And stuffed it well with plums;
  And in it put great lumps of fat,
      As big as my two thumbs.

  The king and queen did eat thereof,
      And noblemen beside;
  And what they could not eat that night,
      The queen next morning fried.

                          _Anonymous_.

IN THE DUMPS

  We're all in the dumps,
  For diamonds are trumps;
  The kittens are gone to St. Paul's!
  The babies are bit,
  The moon's in a fit,
  And the houses are built without walls.

                          _Anonymous_.

TWEEDLE-DUM AND TWEEDLE-DEE

  Tweedle-dum and Tweedle-dee
      Resolved to have a battle,
  For Tweedle-dum said Tweedle-dee
      Had spoiled his nice new rattle.
  Just then flew by a monstrous crow,
      As big as a tar-barrel,
  Which frightened both the heroes so
      They quite forgot their quarrel.

                          _Anonymous_.

MARTIN TO HIS MAN

  Martin said to his man,
          Fie! man, fie!
  Oh, Martin said to his man,
          Who's the fool now?
  Martin said to his man,
  Fill thou the cup, and I the can;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a sheep shearing corn,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a sheep shearing corn,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a sheep shearing corn,
  And a cuckoo blow his horn;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a man in the moon,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a man in the moon,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a man in the moon,
  Clouting of St. Peter's shoon,
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a hare chase a hound,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a hare chase a hound,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a hare chase a hound,
  Twenty mile above the ground;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a goose ring a hog,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a goose ring a hog,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a goose ring a hog,
  And a snail that bit a dog;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

  I see a mouse catch the cat,
          Fie! man, fie!
  I see a mouse catch the cat,
          Who's the fool now?
  I see a mouse catch the cat,
  And the cheese to eat the rat;
  Thou hast well drunken, man:
          Who's the fool now?

                          From _Deuteromelia
                          printed in the reign of James I_.

_THE YONGHY-BONGHY-BO_

  I

  On the Coast of Coromandel
      Where the early pumpkins blow,
        In the middle of the woods
      Lived the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  Two old chairs, and half a candle,
  One old jug without a handle,--
      These were all his worldly goods:
      In the middle of the woods,
      These were all the worldly goods
    Of the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
    Of the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  II

  Once, among the Bong-trees walking
    Where the early pumpkins blow,
      To a little heap of stones
    Came the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  There he heard a Lady talking,
  To some milk-white Hens of Dorking,--
        "'Tis the Lady Jingly Jones!
        On that little heap of stones
        Sits the Lady Jingly Jones!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  III

  "Lady Jingly! Lady Jingly!
      Sitting where the pumpkins blow,
        Will you come and be my wife?"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
  "I am tired of living singly,--
  On this coast so wild and shingly,--
        I'm a-weary of my life;
        If you'll come and be my wife,
        Quite serene would be my life!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  IV

  "On this Coast of Coromandel
      Shrimps and watercresses grow,
        Prawns are plentiful and cheap,"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  "You shall have my chairs and candle,
  And my jug without a handle!
        Gaze upon the rolling deep
        (Fish is plentiful and cheap):
        As the sea, my love is deep!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  Lady Jingly answered sadly,
      And her tears began to flow,--
        "Your proposal comes too late,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
  I would be your wife most gladly!"
  (Here she twirled her fingers madly,)
        "But in England I've a mate!
        Yes! you've asked me far too late,
        For in England I've a mate,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!"

  VI

  Mr. Jones (his name is Handel,--
      Handel Jones, Esquire & Co.)
        Dorking fowls delights to send,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
  Keep, oh, keep your chairs and candle,
  And your jug without a handle,--
        I can merely be your friend!
        Should my Jones more Dorkings send,
        I will give you three, my friend!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!

  VII

  "Though you've such a tiny body,
      And your head so large doth grow,--
        Though your hat may blow away,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
  Though you're such a Hoddy Doddy,
  Yet I wish that I could modi-
        fy the words I needs must say!
        Will you please to go away?
        That is all I have to say,
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!
      Mr. Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo!"

  VIII

  Down the slippery slopes of Myrtle,
      Where the early pumpkins blow,
        To the calm and silent sea
      Fled the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  There, beyond the Bay of Gurtle,
  Lay a large and lively Turtle.
        "You're the Cove," he said, "for me:
        On your back beyond the sea,
        Turtle, you shall carry me!"
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Said the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  IX

  Through the silent roaring ocean
      Did the Turtle swiftly go;
        Holding fast upon his shell
      Rode the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  With a sad primaeval motion
  Toward the sunset isles of Boshen
        Still the Turtle bore him well,
        Holding fast upon his shell.
        "Lady Jingly Jones, farewell!"
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      Sang the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

  X

  From the Coast of Coromandel
      Did that Lady never go,
        On that heap of stones she mourns
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.
  On that Coast of Coromandel,
  In his jug without a handle
        Still she weeps, and daily moans;
        On the little heap of stones
        To her Dorking Hens she moans,
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo,
      For the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo.

                          _Edward Lear_.

_THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES_

  The Pobble who has no toes
      Had once as many as we;
  When they said, "Some day you may lose them all,"
      He replied, "Fish fiddle de-dee!"
  And his Aunt Jobiska made him drink
  Lavender water tinged with pink;
  For she said, "The World in general knows
  There's nothing so good for a Pobble's toes!"

  The Pobble who has no toes
      Swam across the Bristol Channel;
  But before he set out he wrapped his nose
      In a piece of scarlet flannel.
  For his Aunt Jobiska said, "No harm
  Can come to his toes if his nose is warm;
  And it's perfectly known that a Pobble's toes
  Are safe--provided he minds his nose."

  The Pobble swam fast and well,
      And when boats or ships came near him,
  He tinkledy-binkledy-winkled a bell
      So that all the world could hear him.
  And all the Sailors and Admirals cried,
  When they saw him nearing the farther side,
  "He has gone to fish for his Aunt Jobiska's
  Runcible Cat with crimson whiskers!"

  But before he touched the shore--
      The shore of the Bristol Channel,
  A sea-green Porpoise carried away
      His wrapper of scarlet flannel.
  And when he came to observe his feet,
  Formerly garnished with toes so neat,
  His face at once became forlorn
  On perceiving that all his toes were gone!

  And nobody ever knew,
      From that dark day to the present,
  Whoso had taken the Pobble's toes,
      In a manner so far from pleasant.
  Whether the shrimps or crawfish gray,
  Or crafty mermaids stole them away,
  Nobody knew; and nobody knows
  How the Pobble was robbed of his twice five toes!

  The Pobble who has no toes
      Was placed in a friendly Bark,
  And they rowed him back and carried him up
      To his Aunt Jobiska's Park.
  And she made him a feast at his earnest wish,
  Of eggs and buttercups fried with fish;
  And she said, "It's a fact the whole world knows,
  That Pobbles are happier without their toes."

                          _Edward Lear_.

THE JUMBLIES

  I

  They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
      In a sieve they went to sea:
  In spite of all their friends could say,
  On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
     In a sieve they went to sea.
  And when the sieve turned round and round,
  And every one cried, "You'll all be drowned!"
  They called aloud, "Our sieve ain't big;
  But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
      In a sieve we'll go to sea!"
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  II

  They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
      In a sieve they sailed so fast,
  With only a beautiful pea-green veil
  Tied with a ribbon by way of a sail,
      To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
  And every one said who saw them go,
  "Oh! won't they soon be upset, you know?
  For the sky is dark and the voyage is long,
  And, happen what may, it's extremely wrong
      In a sieve to sail so fast."
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  III

  The water it soon came in, it did;
      The water it soon came in:
  So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
  In a pinky paper all folded neat;
      And they fastened it down with a pin.
  And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
  And each of them said, "How wise we are!
  Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
  Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
      While round in our sieve we spin."
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  IV

  And all night long they sailed away;
      And when the sun went down,
  They whistled and warbled a moony song
  To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
      In the shade of the mountains brown.
  "O Timballoo! How happy we are
  When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
  And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
  We sail away with a pea-green sail
      In the shade of the mountains brown."
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  V
  They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
      To a land all covered with trees;
  And they bought an owl and a useful cart,
  And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
      And a hive of silvery bees;
  And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
  And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
  And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
      And no end of Stilton cheese.
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

  VI

  And in twenty years they all came back,--
      In twenty years or more;
  And every one said, "How tall they've grown!
  For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
      And the hills of the Chankly Bore."
  And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
  Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
  And every one said, "If we only live,
  We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
      To the hills of the Chankly Bore."
        Far and few, far and few,
          Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
        Their heads are green, and their hands are blue;
          And they went to sea in a sieve.

                          _Edward Lear_.

INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF MY UNCLE ARLY

  I

  Oh! my aged Uncle Arly,
  Sitting on a heap of barley
        Through the silent hours of night,
  Close beside a leafy thicket;
  On his nose there was a cricket,
  In his hat a Railway-Ticket,
        (But his shoes were far too tight.)

  II

  Long ago, in youth, he squander'd
  All his goods away, and wander'd
        To the Timskoop-hills afar.
  There on golden sunsets glazing
  Every evening found him gazing,
  Singing, "Orb! you're quite amazing!
        How I wonder what you are!"

  III

  Like the ancient Medes and Persians,
  Always by his own exertions
        He subsisted on those hills;
  Whiles, by teaching children spelling,
  Or at times by merely yelling,
  Or at intervals by selling
        "Propter's Nicodemus Pills."

  IV

  Later, in his morning rambles,
  He perceived the moving brambles
        Something square and white disclose:--
  'Twas a First-class Railway-Ticket;
  But on stooping down to pick it
  Off the ground, a pea-green cricket
        Settled on my uncle's nose.

  V

  Never, nevermore, oh! never
  Did that cricket leave him ever,--
        Dawn or evening, day or night;
  Clinging as a constant treasure,
  Chirping with a cheerious measure,
  Wholly to my uncle's pleasure,
        (Though his shoes were far too tight.)

  VI

  So for three and forty winters,
  Till his shoes were worn to splinters
        All those hills he wander'd o'er,--
  Sometimes silent, sometimes yelling;
  Till he came to Borley-Melling,
  Near his old ancestral dwelling,
        (But his shoes were far too tight.)

  VII

  On a little heap of barley
  Died my aged Uncle Arly,
        And they buried him one night
  Close beside the leafy thicket;
  There, his hat and Railway-Ticket;
  There, his ever faithful cricket;
        (But his shoes were far too tight.)

                          _Edward Lear_.

LINES TO A YOUNG LADY

  How pleasant to know Mr. Lear!
      Who has written such volumes of stuff!
  Some think him ill-tempered and queer,
      But a few think him pleasant enough.

  His mind is concrete and fastidious,
      His nose is remarkably big;
  His visage is more or less hideous,
      His beard it resembles a wig.

  He has ears, and two eyes, and ten fingers,
      Leastways if you reckon two thumbs;
  Long ago he was one of the singers,
      But now he is one of the dumbs.

  He sits in a beautiful parlour,
      With hundreds of books on the wall;
  He drinks a great deal of Marsala,
      But never gets tipsy at all.

  He has many friends, laymen and clerical,
      Old Foss is the name of his cat:
  His body is perfectly spherical,
      He weareth a runcible hat.

  When he walks in a waterproof white,
      The children run after him so!
  Calling out, "He's come out in his night-
      Gown, that crazy old Englishman, oh!"

  He weeps by the side of the ocean,
      He weeps on the top of the hill;
  He purchases pancakes and lotion,
      And chocolate shrimps from the mill.

  He reads but he cannot speak Spanish,
      He cannot abide ginger-beer:
  Ere the days of his pilgrimage vanish,
      How pleasant to know Mr. Lear.

                          _Edward Lear_.

WAYS AND MEANS

  I'll tell thee everything I can;
      There's little to relate.
  I saw an aged aged man,
      A-sitting on a gate.
  "Who are you, aged man?" I said,
      "And how is it you live?"
  His answer trickled through my head
      Like water through a sieve.

  He said, "I look for butterflies
      That sleep among the wheat:
  I make them into mutton-pies,
      And sell them in the street.
  I sell them unto men," he said,
      "Who sail on stormy seas;
  And that's the way I get my bread--
      A trifle, if you please."

  But I was thinking of a plan
      To dye one's whiskers green,
  And always use so large a fan
      That they could not be seen.
  So, having no reply to give
      To what the old man said,
  I cried, "Come, tell me how you live!"
      And thumped him on the head.

  His accents mild took up the tale;
      He said, "I go my ways
  And when I find a mountain-rill
      I set it in a blaze;
  And thence they make a stuff they call
      Rowland's Macassar Oil--
  Yet twopence-halfpenny is all
      They give me for my toil."

  But I was thinking of a way
      To feed oneself on batter,
  And so go on from day to day
      Getting a little fatter.
  I shook him well from side to side,
      Until his face was blue;
  "Come, tell me how you live," I cried,
      "And what it is you do!"

  He said, "I hunt for haddock's eyes
      Among the heather bright,
  And work them into waistcoat-buttons
      In the silent night.
  And these I do not sell for gold
      Or coin of silvery shine,
  But for a copper halfpenny
      And that will purchase nine."

  "I sometimes dig for buttered rolls,
      Or set limed twigs for crabs;
  I sometimes search the grassy knolls
      For wheels of Hansom cabs.
  And that's the way" (he gave a wink)
      "By which I get my wealth--
  And very gladly will I drink
      Your Honor's noble health."

  I heard him then, for I had just
      Completed my design
  To keep the Menai Bridge from rust
      By boiling it in wine.
  I thanked him much for telling me
      The way he got his wealth,
  But chiefly for his wish that he
      Might drink my noble health.

  And now if e'er by chance I put
      My fingers into glue,
  Or madly squeeze a right-hand foot
      Into a left-hand shoe,
  Or if I drop upon my toe
      A very heavy weight,
  I weep, for it reminds me so
  Of that old man I used to know--
  Whose look was mild, whose speech was slow,
  Whose hair was whiter than the snow,
  Whose face was very like a crow,
  With eyes, like cinders, all aglow,
  Who seemed distracted with his woe,
  Who rocked his body to and fro,
  And muttered mumblingly, and low,
  As if his mouth were full of dough,
  Who snorted like a buffalo--
  That summer evening, long ago,
      A-sitting on a gate.

                          _Lewis Carroll_

THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER

  The sun was shining on the sea,
      Shining with all his might:
  He did his very best to make
      The billows smooth and bright--
  And this was odd, because it was
      The middle of the night.

  The moon was shining sulkily,
      Because she thought the sun
  Had got no business to be there
      After the day was done--
  "It's very rude of him," she said,
      "To come and spoil the fun!"

  The sea was wet as wet could be,
      The sands were dry as dry.
  You could not see a cloud, because
      No cloud was in the sky:
  No birds were flying overhead--
      There were no birds to fly.

  The Walrus and the Carpenter
      Were walking close at hand;
  They wept like anything to see
      Such quantities of sand:
  "If this were only cleared away,"
      They said, "it would be grand!"

  "If seven maids with seven mops
      Swept it for half a year,
  Do you suppose," the Walrus said,
      "That they could get it clear?"
  "I doubt it," said the Carpenter,
      And shed a bitter tear.

  "O Oysters come and walk with us!"
      The Walrus did beseech.
  "A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,
      Along the briny beach:
  We cannot do with more than four,
      To give a hand to each."

  The eldest Oyster looked at him,
      But not a word he said:
  The eldest Oyster winked his eye,
      And shook his heavy head--
  Meaning to say he did not choose
      To leave the oyster-bed.

  But four young Oysters hurried up,
      All eager for the treat:
  Their coats were brushed, their faces washed,
      Their shoes were clean and neat--
  And this was odd, because, you know,
      They hadn't any feet.

  Four other Oysters followed them,
      And yet another four;
  And thick and fast they came at last,
      And more, and more, and more--
  All hopping through the frothy waves,
      And scrambling to the shore.

  The Walrus and the Carpenter
      Walked on a mile or so,
  And then they rested on a rock
      Conveniently low:
  And all the little Oysters stood
      And waited in a row.

  "The time has come," the Walrus said,
      "To talk of many things:
  Of shoes--and ships--and sealing-wax--
      Of cabbages--and kings--
  And why the sea is boiling hot--
      And whether pigs have wings."

  "But wait a bit," the Oysters cried,
      "Before we have our chat;
  For some of us are out of breath,
      And all of us are fat!"
  "No hurry!" said the Carpenter,
      They thanked him much for that.

  "A loaf of bread," the Walrus said,
      "Is what we chiefly need:
  Pepper and vinegar besides
      Are very good indeed--
  Now if you 're ready, Oysters dear,
      We can begin to feed."

  "But not on us!" the Oysters cried,
      Turning a little blue.
  "After such kindness that would be
      A dismal thing to do!"
  "The night is fine," the Walrus said,
      "Do you admire the view?"

  "It was so kind of you to come!
      And you are very nice!"
  The Carpenter said nothing but
      "Cut us another slice:
  I wish you were not quite so deaf--
      I've had to ask you twice!"

  "It seems a shame," the Walrus said,
      "To play them such a trick,
  After we've brought them out so far,
      And made them trot so quick!"
  The Carpenter said nothing but
     "The butter's spread too thick!"

  "I weep for you," the Walrus said;
      "I deeply sympathize."
  With sobs and tears he sorted out
      Those of the largest size,
  Holding his pocket-handkerchief
      Before his streaming eyes.

  "O Oysters," said the Carpenter,
      "You've had a pleasant run!
  Shall we be trotting home again?"
      But answer came there none--
  And this was scarcely odd, because
    They'd eaten every one.

                          _Lewis Carroll_.

THE HUNTING OF THE SNARK

  We have sailed many months, we have sailed many weeks,
      (Four weeks to the month you may mark),
  But never as yet ('tis your Captain who speaks)
      Have we caught the least glimpse of a Snark!

  "We have sailed many weeks, we have sailed many days,
      (Seven days to the week I allow),
  But a Snark, on the which we might lovingly gaze,
      We have never beheld until now!"

  "Come, listen, my men, while I tell you again
      The five unmistakable marks
  By which you may know, wheresoever you go,
      The warranted genuine Snarks."

  "Let us take them in order. The first is the taste,
      Which is meagre and hollow, but crisp:
  Like a coat that is rather too tight in the waist,
      With a flavour of Will-o-the-wisp."

  "Its habit of getting up late you'll agree
      That it carries too far, when I say
  That it frequently breakfasts at five-o'clock tea,
      And dines on the following day."

  "The third is its slowness in taking a jest.
      Should you happen to venture on one,
  It will sigh like a thing that is greatly distressed;
      And it always looks grave at a pun."

  "The fourth is its fondness for bathing-machines,
      Which it constantly carries about,
  And believes that they add to the beauty of scenes--
      A sentiment open to doubt."

  "The fifth is ambition. It next will be right
      To describe each particular batch;
  Distinguishing those that have feathers, and bite,
      From those that have whiskers, and scratch."

  "For, although common Snarks do no manner of harm,
      Yet I feel it my duty to say
  Some are Boojums--" The Bellman broke off in alarm,
      For the Baker had fainted away.

  They roused him with muffins--they roused him with ice--
      They roused him with mustard and cress--
  They roused him with jam and judicious advice--
      They set him conundrums to guess.

  When at length he sat up and was able to speak,
      His sad story he offered to tell;
  And the Bellman cried, "Silence! Not even a shriek!"
      And excitedly tingled his bell.

  "My father and mother were honest, though poor--"
      "Skip all that!" cried the Bellman in haste,
  "If it once becomes dark, there's no chance of a Snark,
      We have hardly a minute to waste!"

  "I skip forty years," said the Baker, in tears,
      "And proceed without further remark
  To the day when you took me aboard of your ship
      To help you in hunting the Snark."

  "You may seek it with thimbles--and seek it with care;
      You may hunt it with forks and hope;
  You may threaten its life with a railway-share;
      You may charm it with smiles and soap--"

  "I said it in Hebrew--I said it in Dutch--
      I said it in German and Greek;
  But I wholly forgot (and it vexes me much)
      That English is what you speak!"

  "The thing can be done," said the Butcher, "I think
      The thing must be done, I am sure.
  The thing shall be done! Bring me paper and ink,
      The best there is time to procure."

  So engrossed was the Butcher, he heeded them not,
      As he wrote with a pen in each hand,
  And explained all the while in a popular style
      Which the Beaver could well understand.

  "Taking Three as the subject to reason about--
      A convenient number to state--
  We add Seven and Ten and then multiply out
      By One Thousand diminished by Eight."

  "The result we proceed to divide, as you see,
      By Nine Hundred and Ninety and Two;
  Then subtract Seventeen, and the answer must be
      Exactly and perfectly true."

  "As to temper, the Jubjub's a desperate bird,
      Since it lives in perpetual passion:
  Its taste in costume is entirely absurd--
      It is ages ahead of the fashion."

  "Its flavor when cooked is more exquisite far
      Than mutton or oysters or eggs:
  (Some think it keeps best in an ivory jar,
      And some, in mahogany kegs.)"

  "You boil it in sawdust; you salt it in glue:
      You condense it with locusts and tape;
  Still keeping one principal object in view--
      To preserve its symmetrical shape."

  The Butcher would gladly have talked till next day,
      But he felt that the Lesson must end,
  And he wept with delight in attempting to say
      He considered the Beaver his friend.

                          _Lewis Carroll_.

_SYLVIE AND BRUNO_

  He thought he saw a Banker's clerk
      Descending from the 'bus;
  He looked again, and found it was
      A Hippopotamus.
  "If this should stay to dine," he said,
      "There won't be much for us!"

  He thought he saw an Albatross
      That fluttered round the lamp:
  He looked again, and found it was
      A Penny-Postage-Stamp.
  "You'd best be getting home," he said;
      "The nights are very damp!"

  He thought he saw a Coach-and-Four
      That stood beside his bed:
  He looked again, and found it was
      A Bear without a Head.
  "Poor thing," he said, "poor silly thing!
      It's waiting to be fed!"

  He thought he saw a Kangaroo
      That worked a coffee-mill:
  He looked again, and found it was
      A Vegetable-Pill.
  "Were I to swallow this," he said,
      "I should be very ill!"

  He thought he saw a Rattlesnake
      That questioned him in Greek:
  He looked again, and found it was
      The Middle of Next Week.
  "The one thing I regret," he said,
      "Is that it cannot speak!"

                          _Lewis Carroll_.

GENTLE ALICE BROWN

  It was a robber's daughter, and her name was Alice Brown.
  Her father was the terror of a small Italian town;
  Her mother was a foolish, weak, but amiable old thing;
  But it isn't of her parents that I'm going for to sing.

  As Alice was a-sitting at her window-sill one day,
  A beautiful young gentleman he chanced to pass that way;
  She cast her eyes upon him, and he looked so good and true,
  That she thought, "I could be happy with a gentleman like you!"

  And every morning passed her house that cream of gentlemen,
  She knew she might expect him at a quarter unto ten,
  A sorter in the Custom-house, it was his daily road
  (The Custom-house was fifteen minutes' walk from her abode.)

  But Alice was a pious girl, who knew it wasn't wise
  To look at strange young sorters with expressive purple eyes;
  So she sought the village priest to whom her family confessed,
  The priest by whom their little sins were carefully assessed.

  "Oh, holy father,"  Alice said, "'twould grieve you, would it not?
  To discover that I was a most disreputable lot!
  Of all unhappy sinners I'm the most unhappy one!"
  The padre said, "Whatever have you been and gone and done?"

  "I have helped mamma to steal a little kiddy from its dad,
  I've assisted dear papa in cutting up a little lad.
  I've planned a little burglary and forged a little check,
  And slain a little baby for the coral on its neck!"

  The worthy pastor heaved a sigh, and dropped a silent tear--
  And said, "You mustn't judge yourself too heavily, my dear--
  It's wrong to murder babies, little corals for to fleece;
  But sins like these one expiates at half-a-crown apiece."

  "Girls will be girls--you're very young, and flighty in your mind;
  Old heads upon young shoulders we must not expect to find:
  We mustn't be too hard upon these little girlish tricks--
  Let's see--five crimes at half-a-crown--exactly twelve-and-six."

  "Oh, father," little Alice cried, "your kindness makes me weep,
  You do these little things for me so singularly cheap--
  Your thoughtful liberality I never can forget;
  But O there is another crime I haven't mentioned yet!"

  "A pleasant-looking gentleman, with pretty purple eyes,
  I've noticed at my window, as I've sat a-catching flies;
  He passes by it every day as certain as can be--
  I blush to say I've winked at him and he has winked at me!"

  "For shame," said Father Paul, "my erring daughter! On my word
  This is the most distressing news that I have ever heard.
  Why, naughty girl, your excellent papa has pledged your hand
  To a promising young robber, the lieutenant of his band!"

  "This dreadful piece of news will pain your worthy parents so!
  They are the most remunerative customers I know;
  For many many years they've kept starvation from my doors,
  I never knew so criminal a family as yours!"

  "The common country folk in this insipid neighborhood
  Have nothing to confess, they're so ridiculously good;
  And if you marry any one respectable at all,
  Why, you'll reform, and what will then become of Father Paul?"

  The worthy priest, he up and drew his cowl upon his crown,
  And started off in haste to tell the news to Robber Brown;
  To tell him how his daughter, who now was for marriage fit,
  Had winked upon a sorter, who reciprocated it.

  Good Robber Brown, he muffled up his anger pretty well,
  He said, "I have a notion, and that notion I will tell;
  I will nab this gay young sorter, terrify him into fits,
  And get my gentle wife to chop him into little bits."

  "I've studied human nature, and I know a thing or two,
  Though a girl may fondly love a living gent, as many do--
  A feeling of disgust upon her senses there will fall
  When she looks upon his body chopped particularly small."

  He traced that gallant sorter to a still suburban square;
  He watched his opportunity and seized him unaware;
  He took a life-preserver and he hit him on the head,
  And Mrs. Brown dissected him before she went to bed.

  And pretty little Alice grew more settled in her mind,
  She nevermore was guilty of a weakness of the kind,
  Until at length good Robber Brown bestowed her pretty hand
  On the promising young robber, the lieutenant of his band.

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.

THE STORY OF PRINCE AGIB

  Strike the concertina's melancholy string!
  Blow the spirit-stirring harp like any thing!
          Let the piano's martial blast
          Rouse the Echoes of the Past,
  For of Agib, Prince of Tartary, I sing!

  Of Agib, who amid Tartaric scenes,
  Wrote a lot of ballet-music in his teens:
          His gentle spirit rolls
          In the melody of souls--
  Which is pretty, but I don't know what it means

  Of Agib, who could readily, at sight,
  Strum a march upon the loud Theodolite:
          He would diligently play
          On the Zoetrope all day,
  And blow the gay Pantechnicon all night.

  One winter--I am shaky in my dates--
  Came two starving minstrels to his gates,
          Oh, Allah be obeyed,
          How infernally they played!
  I remember that they called themselves the "Oiiaits."

  Oh! that day of sorrow, misery, and rage,
  I shall carry to the Catacombs of Age,
          Photographically lined
          On the tablet of my mind,
  When a yesterday has faded from its page!

  Alas! Prince Agib went and asked them in!
  Gave them beer, and eggs, and sweets, and scents, and tin.
          And when (as snobs would say)
          They "put it all away,"
  He requested them to tune up and begin.

  Though its icy horror chill you to the core,
  I will tell you what I never told before,
          The consequences true
          Of that awful interview,
  _For I listened at the key-hole in the door_!

  They played him a sonata--let me see!
  "_Medulla oblongata_"--key of G.
          Then they began to sing
          That extremely lovely thing,
  "Scherzando! ma non troppo, ppp."

  He gave them money, more than they could count,
  Scent, from a most ingenious little fount,
          More beer, in little kegs,
          Many dozen hard-boiled eggs,
  And goodies to a fabulous amount.

  Now follows the dim horror of my tale,
  And I feel I'm growing gradually pale,
          For, even at this day,
          Though its sting has passed away,
  When I venture to remember it, I quail!

  The elder of the brothers gave a squeal,
  All-overish it made me for to feel!
          "Oh Prince," he says, says he,
          "_If a Prince indeed you be_,
  I've a mystery I'm going to reveal!"

  "Oh, listen, if you'd shun a horrid death,
  To what the gent who's speaking to you, saith:
          No 'Oiiaits' in truth are we,
          As you fancy that we be,
  For (ter-remble) I am Aleck--this is Beth!"

  Said Agib, "Oh! accursed of your kind,
  I have heard that you are men of evil mind!"
          Beth gave a dreadful shriek--
          But before he'd time to speak
  I was mercilessly collared from behind.

  In number ten or twelve or even more,
  They fastened me, full length upon the floor.
          On my face extended flat
          I was walloped with a cat
  For listening at the key-hole of the door.

  Oh! the horror of that agonizing thrill!
  (I can feel the place in frosty weather still).
          For a week from ten to four
          I was fastened to the floor,
  While a mercenary wopped me with a will!

  They branded me, and broke me on a wheel,
  And they left me in an hospital to heal;
          And, upon my solemn word,
          I have never never heard
  What those Tartars had determined to reveal.

  But that day of sorrow, misery, and rage,
  I shall carry to the Catacombs of Age,
          Photographically lined
          On the tablet of my mind,
  When a yesterday has faded from its page!

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.

FERDINANDO AND ELVIRA, OR THE GENTLE PIEMAN

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Love you?" said I, then I sighed, and then I gazed upon her
       sweetly--
  For I think I do this sort of thing particularly neatly--

  "Tell me whither I may his me, tell me, dear one, that I may know--
  Is it up the highest Andes? down a horrible volcano?"

  But she said, "It isn't polar bears, or hot volcanic grottoes,
  Only find out who it is that writes those lovely cracker mottoes."

  Seven weary years I wandered--Patagonia, China, Norway,
  Till at last I sank exhausted, at a pastrycook his doorway.

  And he chirped and sang and skipped about, and laughed with
       laughter hearty,
  He was wonderfully active for so very stout a party.

  And I said, "Oh, gentle pieman, why so very, very merry?
  Is it purity of conscience, or your one-and-seven sherry?"

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Then I polish all the silver which a supper-table lacquers;
  Then I write the pretty mottoes which you find inside the crackers."

  "Found at last!" I madly shouted. "Gentle pieman, you astound me!"
  Then I waved the turtle soup enthusiastically round me.

  And I shouted and I danced until he'd quite a crowd around him,
  And I rushed away, exclaiming, "I have found him! I have found him!"

                          _W.S. Gilbert_.

GENERAL JOHN

  The bravest names for fire and flames,
      And all that mortal durst,
  Were General John and Private James,
      Of the Sixty-seventy-first.

  General John was a soldier tried,
      A chief of warlike dons;
  A haughty stride and a withering pride
      Were Major-General John.

  A sneer would play on his martial phiz,
      Superior birth to show;
  "Pish!" was a favorite word of his,
      And he often said "Ho! Ho!"

  Full-Private James described might be,
      As a man of mournful mind;
  No characteristic trait had he
      Of any distinctive kind.

  From the ranks, one day, cried Private James,
      "Oh! Major-General John,
  I've doubts of our respective names,
      My mournful mind upon."

  "A glimmering thought occurs to me,
      (Its source I can't unearth),
  But I've a kind of notion we
      Were cruelly changed at birth."

  "I've a strange idea, each other's names
      That we have each got on.
  Such things have been," said Private James.
      "They have!" sneered General John.

  "My General John, I swear upon
      My oath I think it is so--"
  "Pish!" proudly sneered his General John,
      And he also said "Ho! ho!"

  "My General John! my General John!
      My General John!" quoth he,
  "This aristocratical sneer upon
      Your face I blush to see."

  "No truly great or generous cove
      Deserving of them names
  Would sneer at a fixed idea that's drove
      In the mind of a Private James!"

  Said General John, "Upon your claims
      No need your breath to waste;
  If this is a joke, Full-Private James,
      It's a joke of doubtful taste."

  "But being a man of doubtless worth,
      If you feel certain quite
  That we were probably changed at birth,
      I'll venture to say you're right."

  So General John as Private James
      Fell in, parade upon;
  And Private James, by change of names,
      Was Major-General John.

                          _W.S. Gilbert_

LITTLE BILLEE

  There were three sailors of Bristol City
      Who took a boat and went to sea,
  But first with beef and captain's biscuits,
      And pickled pork they loaded she.

  There was gorging Jack, and guzzling Jimmy,
      And the youngest he was little Billee.
  Now when they'd got as far as the Equator,
      They'd nothing left but one split pea.

  Says gorging Jack to guzzling Jimmy,
      "I am extremely hungaree."
  To gorging Jack says guzzling Jimmy,
      "We've nothing left, us must eat we."

  Says gorging Jack to guzzling Jimmy,
      "With one another we shouldn't agree!
  There's little Bill, he's young and tender,
      We're old and tough, so let's eat he."

  "O Billy! we're going to kill and eat you,
      So undo the button of your chemie."
  When Bill received this information,
      He used his pocket-handkerchie,

  "First let me say my catechism,
      Which my poor mother taught to me."
  "Make haste! make haste!" says guzzling Jimmy,
      While Jack pulled out his snicker-snee.

  Then Bill went up to the main-top-gallant-mast,
      And down he fell on his bended knee,
  He scarce had come to the Twelfth Commandment
      When up he jumps--"There's land I see!"

  "Jerusalem and Madagascar,
      And North and South Amerikee,
  There's the British flag a-riding at anchor,
      With Admiral Napier, K.C.B."

  So when they got aboard of the Admiral's,
      He hanged fat Jack and flogged Jimmee,
  But as for little Bill, he made him
      The captain of a Seventy-three.

                          _W. M. Thackeray_.

_THE WRECK OF THE "JULIE PLANTE_"

  On wan dark night on Lac St. Pierre,
      De win' she blow, blow, blow,
  An' de crew of de wood scow "Julie Plante"
      Got scar't an' run below--
  For de win' she blow lak hurricane;
      Bimeby she blow some more,
  An' de scow bus' up on Lac St. Pierre
      Wan arpent from de shore.

  De captinne walk on de fronte deck,
      An' walk de him' deck too--
  He call de crew from up de hole,
      He call de cook also.
  De cook she's name was Rosie,
      She come from Montreal,
  Was chambre maid on lumber barge,
      On de Grande Lachine Canal.

  De win' she blow from nor'-eas'-wes',--
      De sout' win' she blow too,
  Wen Rosie cry, "Mon cher captinne,
      Mon cher, w'at I shall do?"
  Den de captinne t'row de big ankerre,
      But still de scow she dreef,
  De crew he can't pass on de shore,
      Becos he los' hees skeef.

  De night was dark lak wan black cat,
      De wave run high an' fas',
  Wen de captinne tak' de Rosie girl
      An' tie her to de mas'.
  Den he also tak' de life preserve,
      An' jomp off on de lak',
  An' say, "Good-by, ma Rosie dear,
      I go down for your sak'."

  Nex' morning very early
      'Bout ha'f-pas' two--t'ree--four--
  De captinne--scow--an' de poor Rosie
      Was corpses on de shore.
  For de win' she blow lak' hurricane,
      Bimeby she blow some more,
  An' de scow, bus' up on Lac St. Pierre,
      Wan arpent from de shore.

  MORAL

  Now all good wood scow sailor man
      Tak' warning by dat storm
  An' go an' marry some nice French girl
      An' live on wan beeg farm.
  De win' can blow lak' hurricane
      An' s'pose she blow some more,
  You can't get drown on Lac St. Pierre
      So long you stay on shore.

                          _William H. Drummond_.

THE SHIPWRECK

  Upon the poop the captain stands,
      As starboard as may be;
  And pipes on deck the topsail hands
  To reef the topsail-gallant strands
      Across the briny sea.

  "Ho! splice the anchor under-weigh!"
      The captain loudly cried;
  "Ho! lubbers brave, belay! belay!
  For we must luff for Falmouth Bay
      Before to-morrow's tide."

  The good ship was a racing yawl,
      A spare-rigged schooner sloop,
  Athwart the bows the taffrails all
  In grummets gay appeared to fall,
      To deck the mainsail poop.

  But ere they made the Foreland Light,
      And Deal was left behind,
  The wind it blew great gales that night,
  And blew the doughty captain tight,
      Full three sheets in the wind.

  And right across the tiller head
      The horse it ran apace,
  Whereon a traveller hitched and sped
  Along the jib and vanished
      To heave the trysail brace.

  What ship could live in such a sea?
      What vessel bear the shock?
  "Ho! starboard port your helm-a-lee!
  Ho! reef the maintop-gallant-tree,
      With many a running block!"

  And right upon the Scilly Isles
      The ship had run aground;
  When lo! the stalwart Captain Giles
  Mounts up upon the gaff and smiles,
      And slews the compass round.

  "Saved! saved!" with joy the sailors cry,
      And scandalize the skiff;
  As taut and hoisted high and dry
  They see the ship unstoppered lie
      Upon the sea-girt cliff.

  And since that day in Falmouth Bay,
      As herring-fishers trawl,
  The younkers hear the boatswains say
  How Captain Giles that awful day
      Preserved the sinking yawl.

                          _E.H. Palmer_.

_A SAILOR'S YARN_

  _As narrated by the second mate to one of the marines_.

  This is the tale that was told to me,
  By a battered and shattered son of the sea:
  To me and my messmate, Silas Green,
  When I was a guileless young marine.

  "'T was the good ship 'Gyacutus,'
  All in the China seas;
  With the wind a lee, and the capstan free,
  To catch the summer breeze."

  "'T was Captain Porgie on the deck
  To the mate in the mizzen hatch,
  While the boatswain bold, in the for'ard hold,
  Was winding his larboard watch."

  "'Oh, how does our good ship head to-night?
  How heads our gallant craft?'
  'Oh, she heads to the E. S. W. by N.
  And the binnacle lies abaft.'"

  "'Oh, what does the quadrant indicate?
  And how does the sextant stand?'
  'Oh, the sextant's down to the freezing point
  And the quadrant's lost a hand.'"

  "'Oh, if the quadrant's lost a hand,
  And the sextant falls so low,
  It's our body and bones to Davy Jones
  This night are bound to go."

  "'Oh, fly aloft to the garboard-strake,
  And reef the spanker boom,
  Bend a stubbing sail on the martingale
  To give her weather room."

  "'Oh, boatswain, down in the for'ard hold
  What water do you find?'
  'Four foot and a half by the royal gaff
  And rather more behind.'"

  "'Oh, sailors, collar your marline spikes
  And each belaying pin;
  Come, stir your stumps to spike the pumps,
  Or more will be coming in.'"

  "'They stirred their stumps, they spiked the pumps
  They spliced the mizzen brace;
  Aloft and alow they worked, but, oh!
  The water gained apace."

  "They bored a hole below her line
  To let the water out,
  But more and more with awful roar
  The water in did spout."

  "Then up spoke the cook of our gallant ship--
  And he was a lubber brave--
  'I've several wives in various ports,
  And my life I'd like to save.'"

  "Then up spoke the captain of marines,
  Who dearly loved his prog:
  'It's awful to die, and it's worse to be dry,
  And I move we pipes to grog.'"

  "Oh, then 'twas the gallant second-mate
  As stopped them sailors' jaw,
  'Twas the second-mate whose hand had weight
  In laying down the law."

  "He took the anchor on his back,
  And leapt into the main;
  Through foam and spray he clove his way,
  And sunk, and rose again."

  "Through foam and spray a league away
  The anchor stout he bore,
  Till, safe at last, I made it fast,
  And warped the ship ashore."

  This is the tale that was told to me,
  By that modest and truthful son of the sea.
  And I envy the life of a second mate,
  Though captains curse him and sailors hate;
  For he ain't like some of the swabs I've seen,
  As would go and lie to a poor marine.

                          _J.J. Rache_.

THE WALLOPING WINDOW-BLIND

  A capital ship for an ocean trip
      Was the "Walloping Window-blind"--
  No gale that blew dismayed her crew
      Or troubled the captain's mind.
  The man at the wheel was taught to feel
      Contempt for the wildest blow,
  And it often appeared, when the weather had cleared,
      That he'd been in his bunk below.

  The boatswain's mate was very sedate,
      Yet fond of amusement, too;
  And he played hop-scotch with the starboard watch,
      While the captain tickled the crew.
  And the gunner we had was apparently mad,
      For he sat on the after rail,
  And fired salutes with the captain's boots,
      In the teeth of the booming gale.

  The captain sat in a commodore's hat
      And dined in a royal way
  On toasted pigs and pickles and figs
      And gummery bread each day.
  But the cook was Dutch and behaved as such:
      For the food that he gave the crew
  Was a number of tons of hot-cross buns
      Chopped up with sugar and glue.

  And we all felt ill as mariners will,
      On a diet that's cheap and rude;
  And we shivered and shook as we dipped the cook
      In a tub of his gluesome food.
  Then nautical pride we laid aside,
      And we cast the vessel ashore
  On the Gulliby Isles, where the Poohpooh smiles,
      And the Anagazanders roar.

  Composed of sand was that favored land,
      And trimmed with cinnamon straws;
  And pink and blue was the pleasing hue
      Of the Tickletoeteaser's claws.
  And we sat on the edge of a sandy ledge
      And shot at the whistling bee;
  And the Binnacle-bats wore water-proof hats
      As they danced in the sounding sea.

  On rubagub bark, from dawn to dark,
      We fed, till we all had grown
  Uncommonly shrunk,--when a Chinese junk
      Came by from the torriby zone.
  She was stubby and square, but we didn't much care,
      And we cheerily put to sea;
  And we left the crew of the junk to chew
      The bark of the rubagub tree.

                          _Charles E. Carryl_.

THE ROLLICKING MASTODON

  A rollicking Mastodon lived in Spain,
      In the trunk of a Tranquil Tree.
  His face was plain, but his jocular vein
      Was a burst of the wildest glee.
  His voice was strong and his laugh so long
      That people came many a mile,
  And offered to pay a guinea a day
      For the fractional part of a smile.

      The Rollicking Mastodon's laugh was wide--
        Indeed, 't was a matter of family pride;
      And oh! so proud of his jocular vein
        Was the Rollicking Mastodon over in Spain.

  The Rollicking Mastodon said one day,
      "I feel that I need some air,
  For a little ozone's a tonic for bones,
      As well as a gloss for the hair."
  So he skipped along and warbled a song
      In his own triumphulant way.
  His smile was bright and his skip was light
      As he chirruped his roundelay.

      The Rollicking Mastodon tripped along,
        And sang what Mastodons call a song;
      But every note of it seemed to pain
        The Rollicking Mastodon over in Spain.

  A Little Peetookle came over the hill,
      Dressed up in a bollitant coat;
  And he said, "You need some harroway seed,
      And a little advice for your throat."
  The Mastodon smiled and said, "My child,
      There's a chance for your taste to grow.
  If you polish your mind, you'll certainly find
      How little, how little you know."

  The Little Peetookle, his teeth he ground
      At the Mastodon's singular sense of sound;
  For he felt it a sort of a musical stain
      On the Rollicking Mastodon over in Spain.
  "Alas! and alas! has it come to this pass?"
      Said the Little Peetookle. "Dear me!
  It certainly seems your horrible screams
      Intended for music must be!"

  The Mastodon stopped, his ditty he dropped,
      And murmured, "Good morning, my dear!
  I never will sing to a sensitive thing
      That shatters a song with a sneer!"
  The Rollicking Mastodon bade him "adieu."
      Of course 't was a sensible thing to do;
  For Little Peetookle is spared the strain
      Of the Rollicking Mastodon over in Spain.

                          _Arthur Macy_.

THE SILVER QUESTION

  The Sun appeared so smug and bright,
      One day, that I made bold
  To ask him what he did each night
      With all his surplus gold.

  He flushed uncomfortably red,
      And would not meet my eye.
  "I travel round the world," he said,
      "And travelling rates are high."

  With frigid glance I pierced him through.
      He squirmed and changed his tune.
  Said he: "I will be frank with you:
      I lend it to the Moon."

  "Poor thing! You know she's growing old
      And hasn't any folk.
  She suffers terribly from cold,
      And half the time she's broke."

       *       *       *       *       *

  That evening on the beach I lay
      Behind a lonely dune,
  And as she rose above the bay
      I buttonholed the Moon.

  "Tell me about that gold," said I.
      I saw her features fall.
  "You see, it's useless to deny;
      The Sun has told me all."

  "Sir!" she exclaimed, "how _can_ you try
      An honest Moon this way?
  As for the gold, I put it by
      Against a rainy day."

  I smiled and shook my head. "All right,
      If you _must_ know," said she,
  "I change it into silver bright
      Wherewith to tip the Sea."

  "He is so faithful and so good,
      A most deserving case;
  If he should leave, I fear it would
      Be hard to fill his place."

       *       *       *       *       *

  When asked if they accepted tips,
      The waves became so rough;
  I thought of those at sea in ships,
      And felt I'd said enough.

  For if one virtue I have learned,
      'Tis _tact_; so I forbore
  To press the matter, though I burned
      To ask one question more.

  I hate a scene, and do not wish
      To be mixed up in gales,
  But, oh, I longed to ask the Fish
      Whence came their silver scales!

                          _Oliver Herfora_.

THE SINGULAR SANGFROID OF BABY BUNTING

  Bartholomew Benjamin Bunting
      Had only three passions in life,
  And one of the trio was hunting,
      The others his babe and his wife.
  And always, so rigid his habits,
      He frolicked at home until two,
  And then started hunting for rabbits,
      And hunted till fall of the dew.

  Belinda Bellonia Bunting,
      Thus widowed for half of the day,
  Her duty maternal confronting,
      With baby would patiently play.
  When thus was her energy wasted,
      A patented food she'd dispense.
  (She had bought it the day that they pasted
      The posters all over her fence.)

  But Bonaparte Buckingham Bunting,
      The infant thus blindly adored,
  Replied to her worship by grunting,
      Which showed he was brutally bored.
  'Twas little he cared for the troubles
      Of life. Like a crab on the sands,
  From his sweet little mouth he blew bubbles,
      And threatened the air with his hands.

  Bartholomew Benjamin Bunting
      One night, as his wife let him in,
  Produced as the fruit of his hunting
      A cottontail's velvety skin,
  Which, seeing young Bonaparte wriggle,
      He gave him without a demur,
  And the babe with an aqueous giggle
      He swallowed the whole of the fur!

  Belinda Bellonia Bunting
      Behaved like a consummate loon:
  Her offspring in frenzy confronting
      She screamed herself mottled maroon:
  She felt of his vertebrae spinal,
      Expecting he'd surely succumb,
  And gave him one vigorous, final,
      Hard prod in the pit of his tum.

  But Bonaparte Buckingham Bunting,
      At first but a trifle perplexed,
  By a change in his manner of grunting
      Soon showed he was horribly vexed.
  He displayed not a sign of repentance
      But spoke, in a dignified tone,
  The only consecutive sentence
      He uttered. 'Twas: "Lemme alone."

  The Moral: The parent that uses
      Precaution his folly regrets:
  An infant gets all that he chooses,
      An infant chews all that he gets.

  And colics? He constantly has 'em
      So long as his food is the best,
  But he'll swallow with never a spasm
      What ostriches couldn't digest.

                          _Guy Wetmore Carryl_.

FAITHLESS NELLY GRAY

  Ben Battle was a soldier bold,
      And used to war's alarms:
  But a cannon-ball took off his legs,
      So he laid down his arms!

  Now, as they bore him off the field,
      Said he, "Let others shoot,
  For here I leave my second leg,
      And the Forty-second Foot!"

  The army surgeons made him limbs:
      Said he, "They're only pegs;
  But there's as wooden members quite,
      As represent my legs!"

  Now Ben he loved a pretty maid,
      Her name was Nelly Gray;
  So he went to pay her his devours
      When he'd devoured his pay!

  But when he called on Nelly Gray,
      She made him quite a scoff;
  And when she saw his wooden legs,
      Began to take them off!

  "O Nelly Gray! O Nelly Gray!
      Is this your love so warm?
  The love that loves a scarlet coat,
      Should be more uniform!"

  Said she, "I loved a soldier once,
      For he was blithe and brave;
  But I will never have a man
      With both legs in the grave!"

  "Before you had those timber toes,
      Your love I did allow,
  But then you know, you stand upon
      Another footing now!"

  "O Nelly Gray! O Nelly Gray!
      For all your jeering speeches,
  At duty's call I left my legs
      In Badajos's breaches!"

  "Why, then," said she, "you've lost the feet
      Of legs in war's alarms,
  And now you cannot wear your shoes
      Upon your feats of arms!"

  "Oh, false and fickle Nelly Gray;
      I know why you refuse:
  Though I've no feet--some other man
      Is standing in my shoes!"

  "I wish I ne'er had seen your face;
      But now a long farewell!
  For you will be my death--alas!
      You will not be my Nell!"

  Now, when he went from Nelly Gray,
      His heart so heavy got--
  And life was such a burden grown,
      It made him take a knot!

  So round his melancholy neck
      A rope he did entwine,
  And, for his second time in life
      Enlisted in the Line!

  One end he tied around a beam,
      And then removed his pegs,
  And as his legs were off,--of course,
      He soon was off his legs!

  And there he hung till he was dead
      As any nail in town,--
  For though distress had cut him up,
      It could not cut him down!

  A dozen men sat on his corpse,
      To find out why he died--
  And they buried Ben in four cross-roads,
      With a stake in his inside!

                          _Thomas Hood_.

THE ELDERLY GENTLEMAN

  By the side of a murmuring stream an elderly gentleman sat.
  On the top of his head was a wig, and a-top of his wig was his hat.

  The wind it blew high and blew strong, as the elderly gentleman sat;
  And bore from his head in a trice, and plunged in the river his hat.

  The gentleman then took his cane which lay by his side as he sat;
  And he dropped in the river his wig, in attempting to get out his
       hat.

  His breast it grew cold with despair, and full in his eye madness
       sat;
  So he flung in the river his cane to swim with his wig, and his hat.

  Cool reflection at last came across while this elderly gentleman
       sat;
  So he thought he would follow the stream and look for his cane, wig,
       and hat.

  His head being thicker than common, o'er-balanced the rest of his
       fat;
  And in plumped this son of a woman to follow his wig, cane, and hat.

                          _George Canning_.

MALUM OPUS

  Prope ripam fluvii solus
      A senex silently sat;
  Super capitum ecce his wig,
      Et wig super, ecce his hat.

  Blew Zephyrus alte, acerbus,
      Dum elderly gentleman sat;
  Et a capite took up quite torve
      Et in rivum projecit his hat.

  Tunc soft maledixit the old man,
      Tunc stooped from the bank where he sat
  Et cum scipio poked in the water,
      Conatus servare his hat.

  Blew Zephyrus alte, acerbus,
      The moment it saw him at that;
  Et whisked his novum scratch wig
      In flumen, along with his hat.

  Ab imo pectore damnavit
      In coeruleus eye dolor sat;
  Tunc despairingly threw in his cane
      Nare cum his wig and his hat.

  L'ENVOI

  Contra bonos mores, don't swear
      It 'est wicked you know (verbum sat),
  Si this tale habet no other moral
      Mehercle! You're gratus to that!

                          _James Appleton Morgan_.

_STIVATION_

  In candent ire the solar splendor flames;
  The foles, languescent, pend from arid rames;
  His humid front the cive, anheling, wipes,
  And dreams of erring on ventiferous ripes.

  How dulce to vive occult to mortal eyes,
  Dorm on the herb with none to supervise,
  Carp the suave berries from the crescent vine,
  And bibe the flow from longicaudate kine.

  To me also, no verdurous visions come
  Save you exiguous pool's confervascum,--
  No concave vast repeats the tender hue
  That laves my milk-jug with celestial blue.

  Me wretched!  Let me curr to quercine shades!
  Effund your albid hausts, lactiferous maids!
  Oh, might I vole to some umbrageous chump,--
  Depart,--be off,--excede,--evade,--erump!

                          _O. W. Holmes_.

A HOLIDAY TASK

  _Air--Jullien's Polka_

  Qui nunc dancere vult modo
  Wants to dance in the fashion, oh!
  Discere debet--ought to know,
  Kickere floor cum heel et toe
        One, two three,
        Hop with me,
  Whirligig, twirligig, rapid.

  Polkam jungere, Virgo, vis,
  Will you join the Polka, Miss?
  Liberius--most willingly.
  Sic agimus--then let us try:
        Nunc vide
        Skip with me,
  Whirlabout, roundabout, celer.

  Tum laev cit, tum dextr
  First to the left, and then t' other way;
  Aspice retr in vultu,
  You look at her, and she looks at you.
        Das palmam,
        Change hands ma'am
  Celer--run away, just in sham.

                          _Gilbert Abbott  Becket_.

PUER EX JERSEY

  Puer ex Jersey
  Iens ad school;
  Vidit in meadow,
  Infestum mule.

  Ille approaches
  O magnus sorrow!
  Puer it skyward.
  Funus ad morrow.

  MORAL

  Qui vidit a thing
  Non ei well-known,
  Est bene for him
  Relinqui id alone.

                          _Anonymous_.

THE LITTLE  PEACH

  Une petite pche dans un orchard fleurit,
  Attendez  mon narration triste!
  Une petite pche verdante fleurit.
  Grce  chaleur de soleil, et moisture de miste.
  Il fleurit, il fleurit,
  Attendez  mon narration triste!

  Signes dures pour les deux,
  Petit Jean et sa soeur Sue,
  Et la pche d'une verdante hue,
  Qui fleurit, qui fleurit,
  Attendez a mon narration triste!

                          _Anonymous_.

_MONSIEUR McGINT_

  Monsieur McGint allait en has jusqu'an fond du mer,
      Ils ne l'ont pas encore trouv
      Je crois qu'il est certainement mouill.
  Monsieur McGint, je le repte, allait jusqu'au fond du mer,
      Habill dans sa meilleure costume.

                          _Anonymous_.

_YE LAYE OF YE WOODPECKORE_

  _Picus Erythrocephalus_:

  O whither goest thou, pale studnt
      Within the wood so fur?
  Art on the chokesome cherry bent?
      Dost seek the chestnut burr?

  _Pale Studnt_:

  O it is not for the mellow chestnut
      That I so far am come,
  Nor yet for puckery cherries, but
      For Cypripedim.

  A blossom hangs the choke-cherry
      And eke the chestnut burr,
  And thou a silly fowl must be,
      Thou red-head wood-peckre.

  _Picas Erythrocephalus_:

  Turn back, turn back, thou pale studnt,
      Nor in the forest go;
  There lurks beneath his bosky tent
      The deadly mosquit,

  And there the wooden-chuck doth tread,
      And from the oak-tree's top
  The red, red squirrels on thy head
      The frequent acorn drop.

  _Pale Studnt_:

  The wooden-chuck is next of kin
      Unto the wood-peckre:
  I fear not thine ill-boding din,
      And why should I fear her?

  What though a score of acorns drop
      And squirrels' fur be red!
  'Tis not so ruddy as thy top--
      So scarlet as thy head.

  O rarely blooms the Cypripe-
      dim upon its stalk;
  And like a torch it shines to me
      Adown the dark wood-walk.

  O joy to pluck it from the ground,
      To view the purple sac,
  To touch the sessile stigma's round--
      And shall I then turn back?

  _Picus Erytbrocephalus_:

  O black and shining is the log
      That feeds the sumptuous weed,
  Nor stone is found nor bedded log
      Where foot may well proceed.

  Midmost it glimmers in the mire
     Like Jack o' Lanthorn's spark,
  Lighting, with phosphorescent fire,
      The green umbrageous dark.

  There while thy thirsty glances drink
      The fair and baneful plant,
  Thy shoon within the ooze shall sink
      And eke thine either pant.

  _Pale Studnt_:

  Give o'er, give o'er, thou wood-peckre;
      The bark upon the tree,
  Thou, at thy will, mayst peck and bore
      But peck and bore not me.

  Full two long hours I've searched about
      And 't would in sooth be rum,
  If I should now go back without
      The Cypripedim.

  _Picus Erythrocephalus_:

  Farewell! Farewell! But this I tell
      To thee, thou pale studnt,
  Ere dews have fell, thou'lt rue it well
      That woodward thou didst went:

  Then whilst thou blows the drooping nose
      And wip'st the pensive eye--
  There where the sad _symplocarpus foetidus_ grows,
      Then think--O think of I!

  Loud flouted there that student wight
      Solche warnynge for to hear;
  "I scorn, old hen, thy threats of might,
      And eke thine ill grammre."

  "Go peck the lice (or green or red)
      That swarm the bass-wood tree,
  But wag no more thine addled head
      Nor clack thy tongue at me."

  The wood-peck turned to whet her beak,
      The student heard her drum,
  As through the wood he went to seek
      The Cypripedim.

  Alas! and for that pale studnt:
      The evening bell did ring,
  And down the walk the Freshmen went
      Unto the prayer-meetng;

  Upon the fence loud rose the song,
      The weak, weak tea was o'er--
  Ha! who is he that sneaks along
      Into South Middle's door?

  The mud was on his shoon, and O!
      The briar was in his thumb,
  His staff was in his hand but no--
      No Cypripedim.

                          _Henry A. Beers_.

_COLLUSION BETWEEN A ALEGAITER AND A WATER-SNAIK_

  There is a niland on a river lying,
  Which runs into Gautimaly, a warm country,
  Lying near the Tropicks, covered with sand;
  Hear and their a symptum of a Wilow,
  Hanging of its umberagious limbs & branches
  Over the clear streme meandering far below.
  This was the home of the now silent Alegaiter,
  When not in his other element confine'd:
  Here he wood set upon his eggs asleep
  With 1 ey observant of flis and other passing
  Objects: a while it kept a going on so:
  Fereles of danger was the happy Alegaiter!
  But a las! in a nevil our he was fourced to
  Wake! that dreme of Blis was two sweet for him.
  1 morning the sun arose with unusool splender
  Whitch allso did our Alegaiter, coming from the water,
  His scails a flinging of the rais of the son back,
  To the fountain-head which tha originly sprung from,
  But having not had nothing to eat for some time, he
  Was slepy and gap'd, in a short time, widely.
  Unfoalding soon a welth of perl-white teth,
  The rais of the son soon shet his sinister ey
  Because of their mutool splendor and warmth.
  The evil Our (which I sed) was now come;
  Evidently a good chans for a water-snaik
  Of the large specie, which soon appeared
  Into the horison, near the bank where reposed
  Calmly in slepe the Alegaiter before spoken of.
  About 60 feet was his Length (not the 'gaiter)
  And he was aperiently a well-proportioned snaik.
  When he was all ashore he glared upon
  The iland with approval, but was soon
  "Astonished with the view and lost to wonder" (from Wats)
  (For jest then he began to see the Alegaiter)
  Being a nateral enemy of his'n, he worked hisself
  Into a fury, also a ni position.
  Before the Alegaiter well could ope
  His eye (in other words perceive his danger)
  Times with "foalds voluminous and vast" (from Milton)
  And had tore off several scails in the confusion,
  Besides squeazing him awfully into his stomoc.
  Just then, by a fortinate turn in his affairs,
  He ceazed into his mouth the careless tale
  Of the unreflecting water-snaik!  Grown desperate
  He, finding that his tale was fast squesed
  Terrible while they roaled all over the iland.

  It was a well-conduckted Affair; no noise
  Disturbed the harmony of the seen, ecsept
  Onct when a Willow was snaped into by the roaling.
  Eeach of the combatence hadn't a minit for holering.
  So the conflick was naterally tremenjous!
  But soon by grate force the tail was bit complete-
  Ly of; but the eggzeration was too much
  For his delicate Constitootion; he felt a compression
  Onto his chest and generally over his body;
  When he ecspressed his breathing, it was with
  Grate difficulty that he felt inspired again onct more.
  Of course this state must suffer a revolootion.
  So the alegaiter give but one yel, and egspired.
  The water-snaik realed hisself off, & survay'd
  For say 10 minits, the condition of
  His fo: then wondering what made his tail hurt,
  He slowly went off for to cool.

                          _J. W. Morris_.

_ODD  TO A  KROKIS_

  Selestial apoley which Didest inspire.
  the souls of burns and pop with sackred fir.
  Kast thy Mantil over me When i shal sing,
  the praiz Of A sweat flower who grows in spring
  Which has of late kome under the Fokis.
  of My eyes. It is called a krokis.
  Sweat lovly prety littil sweat Thing,
  you bloometh before The lairicks on High sing,
  thy lefs are neithir Red Nor yelly.
  but Just betwixt the two you hardy felly.

  i fear youl yet be Nippit with the frost.
  As Maney a one has known to there kost.
  you should have not kome out in such a hurrey.
  As this is only the Month of Febrywurrey.
  and you may expick yet Much bad wethir.
  when all your blads will krunkil up like Burnt leather.
  alas. alas. theres Men which tries to rime,
  who have like you kome out befor there time.
  The Moril of My peese depend upon it.
  is good so here i End my odd or sonit.

                          _Anonymous_.

_SOME VERSES TO SNAIX_

  Prodiggus reptile! long and skaly kuss!
  You are the dadrattedest biggest thing I ever
  Seed that cud ty itself into a double bo-
  Not, and cum all strate again in a
  Minnit or so, without winkin or seemin
  To experience any particular pane
  In the diafram.

  Stoopenjus inseck! marvelous annimile!
  You are no doubt seven thousand yeres
  Old, and hav a considerable of a
  Family sneekin round thru the tall
  Gras in Africa, a eetin up little greezy
  Niggers, and wishin they was biggir.

  I wonder how big yu was when yu
  Was a inphant about 2 fete long. I
  Expec yu was a purty good size, and
  Lived on phrogs, and lizzerds, and polly-
  Wogs and sutch things.

  You are havin' a nice time now, ennyhow--
  Don't have nothing to do but lay oph.
  And etc kats and rabbits, and stic
  Out yure tung and twist yur tale.
  I wunder if yu ever swollered a man
  Without takin oph his butes. If there was
  Brass buttins on his kote, I spose
  Yu had ter swaller a lot of buttin-
  Wholes, and a shu--hamer to nock
  The soals oph of the boots and drive in
  The tax, so that they wouldn't kut yure
  Inside. I wunder if vittles taste
  Good all the way down. I expec so--
  At leest, fur 6 or 7 fete.

  You are so mighty long, I shud thynk
  If your tale was kold, yure hed
  Woodent no it till the next day,
  But it's hard tu tell: snaix is snaix.

                          _Anonymous_.

_A GREAT MAN_

  Ye muses, pour the pitying tear
      For Pollio snatch'd away:
  For had he liv'd another year!
      --He had not dy'd to-day.

  O, were he born to bless mankind,
      In virtuous times of yore,
  Heroes themselves had fallen behind!
      --Whene'er he went before.

  How sad the groves and plains appear,
      And sympathetic sheep:
  Even pitying hills would drop a tear!
      --If hills could learn to weep.

  His bounty in exalted strain
      Each bard might well display:
  Since none implor'd relief in vain!
      --That went reliev'd away.

  And hark! I hear the tuneful throng;
      His obsequies forbid.
  He still shall live, shall live as long
      --As ever dead man did.

                          _Oliver Goldsmith_.

_AN ELEGY_

  _On the Glory of her Sex, Mrs. Mary Blaize_

  Good people all, with one accord,
      Lament for Madam Blaize,
  Who never wanted a good word--
      From those who spoke her praise.

  The needy seldom pass'd her door,
      And always found her kind;
  She freely lent to all the poor--
      Who left a pledge behind.

  She strove the neighborhood to please
      With manners wondrous winning;
  And never follow'd wicked ways--
      Unless when she was sinning.

  At church, in silks and satins new,
      With hoop of monstrous size,
  She never slumber'd in her pew--
      But when she shut her eyes.

  Her love was sought, I do aver,
      By twenty beaux and more;
  The King himself has follow'd her--
      When she has walk'd before.

  But now, her wealth and finery fled,
      Her hangers-on cut short all;
  The doctors found, when she was dead--
      Her last disorder mortal.

  Let us lament, in sorrow sore,
      For Kent Street well may say,
  That had she lived a twelvemonth more--
      She had not died to-day.

                          _Oliver Goldsmith_.

_PARSON GRAY_

  A quiet home had Parson Gray,
      Secluded in a vale;
  His daughters all were feminine,
      And all his sons were male.

  How faithfully did Parson Gray
      The bread of life dispense--
  Well "posted" in theology,
      And post and rail his fence.

  'Gainst all the vices of the age
      He manfully did battle;
  His chickens were a biped breed,
      And quadruped his cattle.

  No clock more punctually went,
      He ne'er delayed a minute--
  Nor ever empty was his purse,
      When he had money in it.

  His piety was ne'er denied;
      His truths hit saint and sinner;
  At morn he always breakfasted;
      He always dined at dinner.

  He ne'er by any luck was grieved,
      By any care perplexed--
  No filcher he, though when he preached,
      He always "took" a text.

  As faithful characters he drew
      As mortal ever saw;
  But ah! poor parson! when he died,
      His breath he could not draw!

                          _Oliver Goldsmith_.

_AN ELEGY ON THE DEATH OF A MAD DOG_

  Good people all, of every sort,
      Give ear unto my song;
  And if you find it wondrous short,--
      It cannot hold you long.

  In Islington there was a man,
      Of whom the world might say
  That still a godly race he ran,--
      Whene'er he went to pray.

  A kind and gentle heart he had,
      To comfort friends and foes;
  The naked every day he clad,--
      When he put on his clothes.

  And in that town a dog was found,
      As many dogs there be,
  Both mongrel, puppy, whelp, and hound,
      And curs of low degree.

  The dog and man at first were friends;
      But when a pique began,
  The dog, to gain some private ends,
      Went mad, and bit the man.

  Around from all the neighboring streets,
      The wondering neighbors ran,
  And swore the dog had lost his wits
      To bite so good a man.

  The wound it seemed both sore and sad
      To every Christian eye;
  And while they swore the dog was mad
      They swore the man would die.

  But soon a wonder came to light,
      That showed the rogues they lied;
  The man recovered of the bite,
      The dog it was that died.

                          _Oliver Goldsmith_.

_THE WONDERFUL OLD MAN_

  There was an old man
      Who lived on a common
  And, if fame speaks true,
      He was born of a woman.
  Perhaps you will laugh,
      But for truth I've been told
  He once was an infant
      Tho' age made him old.

  Whene'er he was hungry
      He longed for some meat;
  And if he could get it
      'T was said he would eat.
  When thirsty he'd drink
      If you gave him a pot,
  And what he drank mostly
      Ran down his throat.

  He seldom or never
      Could see without light,
  And yet I've been told he
      Could hear in the night.
  He has oft been awake
      In the daytime, 't is said,
  And has fallen asleep
      As he lay in his bed.

  'T is reported his tongue
      Always moved when he talk'd,
  And he stirred both his arms
      And his legs when he walk'd;
  And his gait was so odd
      Had you seen him you 'd burst,
  For one leg or t' other
      Would always be first.

  His face was the drollest
      That ever was seen,
  For if 't was not washed
      It seldom was clean;
  His teeth he expos'd when
      He happened to grin,
  And his mouth stood across
      'Twixt his nose and his chin.

  When this whimsical chap
      Had a river to pass,
  If he couldn't get over
      He stayed where he was.
  'T is said he ne'er ventured
      To quit the dry ground,
  Yet so great was his luck
      He never was drowned.

  At last he fell sick,
      As old chronicles tell,
  And then, as folks say,
      He was not very well.
  But what was as strange
      In so weak a condition,
  As he could not give fees
      He could get no physician.

  What wonder he died!
      Yet 't is said that his death
  Was occasioned at last
      By the loss of his breath.
  But peace to his bones
      Which in ashes now moulder.
  Had he lived a day longer
      He'd have been a day older.

                          _Anonymous_

_A CHRONICLE_

  Once--but no matter when--
      There lived--no matter where--
  A man, whose name--but then
      I need not that declare.

  He--well, he had been born,
      And so he was alive;
  His age--I details scorn--
      Was somethingty and five.

  He lived--how many years
      I truly can't decide;
  But this one fact appears
      He lived--until he died.

  "He died," I have averred,
      But cannot prove 't was so,
  But that he was interred,
      At any rate, I know.

  I fancy he'd a son,
      I hear he had a wife:
  Perhaps he'd more than one,
      I know not, on my life!

  But whether he was rich,
      Or whether he was poor,
  Or neither--both--or which,
      I cannot say, I'm sure.

  I can't recall his name,
      Or what he used to do:
  But then--well, such is fame!
      'T will so serve me and you.

  And that is why I thus,
      About this unknown man
  Would fain create a fuss,
      To rescue, if I can.

  From dark oblivion's blow,
      Some record of his lot:
  But, ah! I do not know
      Who--where--when--why--or what.

  MORAL

  In this brief pedigree
      A moral we should find--
  But what it ought to be
      Has quite escaped my mind!

                          _Anonymous_.

_ON THE OXFORD CARRIER_

  Here lieth one, who did most truly prove
  That he could never die while he could move;
  So hung his destiny never to rot
  While he might still jog on and keep his trot;
  Made of sphere metal, never to decay
  Until his revolution was at stay.
  Time numbers motion, yet (without a crime
  'Gainst old truth) motion number'd out his time,
  And like an engine moved with wheel and weight,
  His principles being ceased, he ended straight.
  Rest, that gives all men life, gave him his death,
  And too much breathing put him out of breath;
  Nor were it contradiction to affirm,
  Too long vacation hasten'd on his term.
  Merely to drive the time away he sicken'd,
  Fainted, and died, nor would with ale be quicken'd;
  "Nay," quoth he, on his swooning bed outstretch'd,
  "If I mayn't carry, sure I'll ne'er be fetch'd,
  But vow, though the cross doctors all stood hearers,
  For one carrier put down to make six bearers."
  Ease was his chief disease; and to judge right,
  He died for heaviness that his cart went light:
  His leisure told him that his time was come,
  And lack of load made his life burdensome.
  That even to his last breath (there be that say't),
  As he were press'd to death, he cried, "More weight;"
  But, had his doings lasted as they were,
  He had been an immortal carrier.
  Obedient to the moon he spent his date
  In course reciprocal, and had his fate
  Link'd to the mutual flowing of the seas,
  Yet (strange to think) his wane was his increase:
  His letters are deliver'd all, and gone,
  Only remains the superscription.

                          _John Milton_.

_NEPHELIDIA_

  From the depth of the dreamy decline of the dawn
      through a notable nimbus of nebulous noonshine,
  Pallid and pink as the palm of the flag-flower
      that flickers with fear of the flies as they float,
  Are they looks of our lovers that lustrously lean from a marvel
      of mystic miraculous moonshine,
  These that we feel in the blood of our blushes that thicken and
      threaten with sobs from the throat?
  Thicken and thrill as a theatre thronged at appeal of an actor's
      appalled agitation,
  Fainter with fear of the fires of the future than pale with the
      promise of pride in the past;
  Flushed with the  famishing fulness of fever that reddens with
      radiance of rathe recreation,
  Gaunt as the ghastliest of glimpses that gleam through the gloom
      of the gloaming when ghosts go aghast?
  Nay, for the nick of the tick of the time is a tremulous touch
      on the temples of terror,
  Strained as the sinews yet strenuous with strife of the dead who
      is dumb as the dust-heaps of death:
  Surely no soul is it, sweet as the spasm of erotic emotional
      exquisite error,
  Bathed in the balms of beatified bliss, beatific itself by
      beatitude's breath.
  Surely no spirit or sense of a soul that was soft to the spirit
      and soul of our senses
  Sweetens the stress of suspiring suspicion that sobs in the
      semblance and sound of a sigh;
  Only this oracle opens Olympian, in mystical moods and
     triangular tenses--
  Life is the lust of a lamp for the light that is dark till the
      dawn of the day when we die.
  Mild is the mirk and monotonous music of memory melodiously mute
      as it may be,
  While the hope in the heart of a hero is bruised by the breach of
      men's rapiers resigned to the rod;
  Made meek as a mother whose bosom--beats bound with the bliss--
      bringing bulk of a balm--breathing baby,
  As they grope through the grave-yards of creeds, under skies
      growing green'at a groan for the grimness of God.
  Blank is the book of his bounty beholden of old and its binding
      is blacker than bluer:
  Out of blue into black is the scheme of the skies, and their
      dews are the wine of the bloodshed of things;
  Till the darkling desire of delight shall be free as a fawn that
      is freed from the fangs that pursue her,
  Till the heart-beats of hell shall be hushed by a hymn from the
      hunt that has harried the kernel of kings.

                          _A. C. Swinburne,
                             in "The Heptalogia_."

_MARTIN LUTHER AT POTSDAM_

  What lightning shall light it? What thunder shall tell it?
  In the height of the height, in the depth of the deep?

  Shall the sea--storm  declare it, or paint it, or smell it?
      Shall the price of a slave be its treasure to keep?
  When the night has grown near with the gems on her bosom,
      When the white of mine eyes is the whiteness of snow,
  When the cabman--in liquor--drives a blue roan, a kicker,
      Into the land of the dear long ago.

  Ah!--Ah, again!--You will come to me, fall on me--
      You are _so_ heavy, and I am _so_ flat.
  And I? I shall not be at home when you call on me,
      But stray down the wind like a gentleman's hat:
  I shall list to the stars when the music is purple,
      Be drawn through a pipe, and exhaled into rings;
  Turn to sparks, and then straightway get stuck in the gateway
      That stands  between speech and unspeakable things.

  As I mentioned before, by what light is it lighted?
      Oh! Is it fourpence, or piebald, or gray?
  Is it a mayor that a mother has knighted,
      Or is it a horse of the sun and the day?
  Is it a pony? If so, who will change it?
      O golfer, be quiet, and mark where it scuds,
  And think of its paces--of owners and races--
      Relinquish the links for the study of studs.

  Not understood? Take me hence! Take me yonder!
      Take me away to the land of my rest--
  There where the Ganges and other gees wander,
      And uncles and antelopes act for the best,
  And all things are mixed and run into each other
      In a violet twilight of virtues and sins,
  With the church-spires below you and no one to show you
      Where the curate leaves off and the pew-rent begins!

  In the black night through the rank grass the snakes peer--
      The cobs and the cobras are partial to grass--
  And a boy wanders out with a knowledge of Shakespeare
      That's not often found in a boy of his class,
  And a girl wanders out without any knowledge,
      And a bird wanders out, and a cow wanders out,
  Likewise one wether, and they wander together--
      There's a good deal of wandering lying about.

  But it's all for the best; I've been told by my friends, Sir,
      That in verses I'd written the meaning was slight;
  I've tried with no meaning--to make 'em amends, Sir--
      And find that this kind's still more easy to write.
  The title has nothing to do with the verses,
      But think of the millions--the laborers who
  In busy employment find deepest enjoyment,
      And yet, like my title, have nothing to do!

                          _Barry Pain_.

_COMPANIONS_

  I know not of what we ponder'd
      Or made pretence to talk,
  As, her hand within mine, we wander'd
      Tow'rd the pool by the limetree walk,
  While the dew fell in showers from the passion flowers
      And the blush-rose bent on her stalk.

  I cannot recall her figure:
      Was it regal as Juno's own?
  Or only a trifle bigger
      Than the elves who surround the throne
  Of the Fary Queen, and are seen, I ween,
      By mortals in dreams alone?

  What her eyes were like, I know not:
      Perhaps they were blurred with tears;
  And perhaps in your skies there glow not
      (On the contrary) clearer spheres.
  No as to her eyes I am just as wise
      As you or the cat, my dears.

  Her teeth, I presume, were "pearly":
      But which was she, brunette or blonde?
  Her hair, was it quaintly curly,
      Or as straight as a beadle's wand?
  That I failed to remark;--it was rather dark
      And shadowy round the pond.

  Then the hand that reposed so snugly
      In mine--was it plump or spare?
  Was the countenance fair or ugly?
      Nay, children, you have me there!
  My eyes were p'raps blurr'd; and besides, I'd heard
      That it's horribly rude to stare.

  And I--was I brusque and surly?
      Or oppressively bland and fond?
  Was I partial to rising early?
      Or why did we twain abscond,
  All breakfastless too, from the public view
      To prowl by a misty pond?

  What passed, what was felt or spoken--
      Whether anything passed at all--
  And whether the heart was broken
      That beat under that sheltering shawl--
  (If shawl she had on, which I doubt)--has gone.
      Yes, gone from me past recall.

  Was I haply the lady's suitor?
      Or her uncle? I can't make out--
  Ask your governess, dears, or tutor.
      For myself, I'm in hopeless doubt
  As to why we were there, and who on earth we were,
      And what this is all about.

                          _C. S. Calverley_.

_THE COCK AND THE BULL_

  You see this pebble-stone? It's a thing I bought
  Of a bit of a chit of a boy i' the mid o' the day--
  I like to dock the smaller parts-o-speech,
  As we curtail the already cur-tailed cur
  (You catch the paronomasia, play 'po' words?)
  Did, rather, i' the pre-Landseerian days.
  Well, to my muttons. I purchased the concern,
  And clapt it i' my poke, having given for same
  By way o' chop, swop, barter or exchange--
  "Chop" was my snickering dandiprat's own term--
  One  shilling  and  fourpence, current coin o' the realm.
  O-n-e one and f-o-u-r four
  Pence, one and fourpence--you are with me, sir?--
  What hour it skills not: ten or eleven o' the clock,
  One day (and what a roaring day it was
  Go shop or sight-see--bar a spit o' rain!)
  In February, eighteen sixty nine,
  Alexandrina Victoria, Fidei,
  Hm--hm--how runs the jargon? being on the throne.

  Such, sir, are all the facts, succinctly put,
  The basis or substratum--what you will--
  Of the impending eighty thousand lines.
  "Not much in 'em either," quoth perhaps simple Hodge.
  But there's a superstructure. Wait a bit.

  Mark first the rationale of the thing:
  Hear logic rivel and levigate the deed.
  That shilling--and for matter o' that, the pence--
  I had o' course upo' me--wi' me say--
  (_Mecum's_ the Latin, make a note o' that)
  When I popp'd pen i' stand, scratched ear, wiped snout,
  (Let everybody wipe his own himself)
  Sniff'd--tch!--at snuffbox; tumbled up, he-heed,
  Haw-haw'd (not he-haw'd, that's another guess thing):
  Then fumbled at, and stumbled out of, door,
  I shoved the timber ope wi' my omoplat;
  And _in vestibulo_, i' the lobby to-wit,
  (Iacobi Facciolati's rendering, sir,)
  Donned galligaskins, antigropeloes,
  And so forth; and, complete with hat and gloves,
  One on and one a-dangle i' my hand,
  And ombrifuge (Lord love you!) cas o' rain,
  I flopped forth, 'sbuddikins! on my own ten toes,
  (I do assure you there be ten of them)
  And went clump-clumping up hill and down dale
  To find myself o' the sudden i' front o' the boy.
  Put case I hadn't 'em on me, could I ha' bought
  This sort-o'-kind-o'-what-you-might-call-toy,
  This pebble-thing, o' the boy-thing? Q. E. D.
  That's proven without aid for mumping Pope,
  Sleek porporate or bloated cardinal.
  (Isn't it, old Fatchops? You're in Euclid now.)
  So, having the shilling--having i' fact a lot--
  And pence and halfpence, ever so many o' them,
  I purchased, as I think I said before,
  The pebble (_lapis, lapidis, di, dem, de_--
  What nouns 'crease short i' the genitive,  Fatchops, eh?)
  O the boy, a bare-legg'd beggarly son of a gun,
  For one-and-fourpence. Here we are again.
  Now Law steps in, biwigged, voluminous-jaw'd;
  Investigates and re-investigates.
  Was the transaction illegal? Law shakes head.
  Perpend, sir, all the bearings of the case.

  At first the coin was mine, the chattel his.
  But now (by virtue of the said exchange
  And barter) _vice versa_ all the coin,
  _Rer juris operationem_, vests
  I' the boy and his assigns till ding o' doom;
  _In saecula saeculo-o-o-orum_;
  (I think I hear the Abate mouth out that.)
  To have and hold the same to him and them ...
  Confer some idiot on Conveyancing.
  Whereas the pebble and every part thereof,
  And all that appertaineth thereunto,
  _Quodcunque pertinet ad em rem_,
  (I fancy, sir, my Latin's rather pat)
  Or shall, will, may, might, can, could, would, or should,
  _Subaudi caetera_--clap we to the close--
  For what's the good of law in such a case o' the kind
  Is mine to all intents and purposes.
  This settled, I resume the thread o' the tale.

  Now for a touch o' the vendor's quality.
  He says a gen'lman bought a pebble of him,
  (This pebble i' sooth, sir, which I hold i' my hand)--
  And paid for 't, _like_ a gen'lman, on the nail.
  "Did I o'ercharge him a ha'penny? Devil a bit.
  Fiddlepin's end! Get out, you blazing ass!
  Gabble o' the goose. Don't bugaboo-baby _me_!
  Go double or quits? Yah! tittup! what's the odds?"
  --There's the transaction viewed in the vendor's light.

  Next ask that dumpled hag, stood snuffling by,
  With her three frowsy blowsy brats o' babes,
  The scum o' the Kennel, cream o' the filth-heap--Faugh!
  Aie, aie, aie, aie! [Greek: otototototoi],
  ('Stead which we blurt out, Hoighty toighty now)--
  And the baker and candlestick maker, and Jack and Gill,
  Blear'd Goody this and queasy Gaffer that,
  Ask the Schoolmaster, Take Schoolmaster first.
  He saw a gentleman purchase of a lad
  A stone, and pay for it _rite_ on the square,
  And carry it off _per saltum_, jauntily
  _Propria quae maribus_, gentleman's property now
  (Agreeable to the law explained above).
  _In proprium usum_, for his private ends,
  The boy he chucked a brown i' the air, and bit
  I' the face the shilling; heaved a thumping stone
  At a lean hen that ran cluck-clucking by,
  (And hit her, dead as nail i' post o' door,)
  Then _abiit_--What's the Ciceronian phrase?
  _Excessit, evasit, erupit_--off slogs boy;
  Off like bird, _avi similis_--(you observed
  The dative? Pretty i' the Mantuan!)--_Anglice_
  Off in three flea skips. _Hactenus_, so far,
  So good, _tam bene. Bene, satis, male_,--
  Where was I with my trope 'bout one in a quag?
  I did once hitch the Syntax into verse
  _Verbum personale_, a verb personal,
  _Concordat_--"ay", agrees old Fatchops--_cum
  Nominativo_, with its nominative,
  _Genere_, i' point of gender, _numero_,
  O' number, _et persona_, and person. _Ut_,
  Instance: _Sol ruit_, down flops sun, _et_ and,
  _Montes umbrantur_, out flounce mountains. Pah!
  Excuse me, sir, I think I'm going mad.

  You see the trick on't, though, and can yourself
  Continue the discourse _ad libitum_.
  It takes up about eighty thousand lines,
  A thing imagination boggles at;
  And might, odds-bobs, sir! in judicious hands
  Extend from here to Mesopotamy.

                          _C.S. Calverley_.

LOVERS AND A  REFLECTION

  In moss-prankt dells which the sunbeams flatter
      (And heaven it knoweth what that may mean;
  Meaning, however, is no great matter)
      Where woods are a-tremble with words a-tween;

  Thro' God's own heather we wonned together,
      I and my Willie (O love my love):
  I need hardly remark it was glorious weather,
      And flitter-bats wavered alow, above:

  Boats were curtseying, rising, bowing,
      (Boats in that climate are so polite,)
  And sands were a ribbon of green endowing,
      And O the sun-dazzle on bark and bight!

  Thro' the rare red heather we danced together
      (O love my Willie,) and smelt for flowers:
  I must mention again it was glorious weather,
      Rhymes are so scarce in this world of ours:

  By rises that flushed with their purple favors,
      Thro' becks that brattled o'er grasses sheen,
  We walked or waded, we two young shavers,
      Thanking our stars we were both so green.

  We journeyed in parallels, I and Willie,
      In fortunate parallels! Butterflies,
  Hid in weltering shadows of daffodilly
      Or marjoram, kept making peacock eyes:

  Song-birds darted about, some inky
      As coal, some snowy (I ween) as curds;
  Or rosy as pinks, or as roses pinky--
      They reek of no eerie To-come, those birds!

  But they skim over bents which the mill-stream washes,
      Or hang in the lift 'neath a white cloud's hem;
  They need no parasols, no goloshes;
      And good Mrs. Trimmer she feedeth them.

  Then we thrid God's cowslips (as erst his heather),
      That endowed the wan grass with their golden blooms;
  And snapt--(it was perfectly charming weather)--
      Our fingers at Fate and her goddess-glooms:

  And Willie 'gan sing--(Oh, his notes were fluty;
      Wafts fluttered them out to the white-winged sea)--
  Something made up of rhymes that have done much duty,
      Rhymes (better to put it) of "ancientry":

  Bowers of flowers encountered showers
      In William's carol--(O love my Willie!)
  Then he bade sorrow borrow from blithe tomorrow
      I quite forget what--say a daffodilly.

  A nest in a hollow, "with buds to follow,"
      I think occurred next in his nimble strain;
  And clay that was "kneaden" of course in Eden--
      A rhyme most novel I do maintain:

  Mists, bones, the singer himself, love-stories,
      And all least furlable things got furled;
  Not with any design to conceal their glories,
      But simply and solely to rhyme with world.

  O if billows and pillows and hours and flowers,
      And all the brave rhymes of an elder day,
  Could be furled together, this genial weather,
      And carted or carried on wafts away,

  Nor ever again trotted out--ah me!
  How much fewer volumes of verse there'd be.

                          _C.S. Calverley_

AN IMITATION OF WORDSWORTH

  There is a river clear and fair,
  'Tis neither broad nor narrow;
        It winds a little here and there--
  It winds about like any hare;
  And then it takes as straight a course
  As on the turnpike road a horse,
      Or through the air an arrow.

  The trees that grow upon the shore,
  Have grown a hundred years or more;
        So long there is no knowing.
  Old Daniel Dobson does not know
  When first these trees began to grow;
  But still they grew, and grew, and grew,
  As if they'd nothing else to do,
      But ever to be growing.

  The impulses of air and sky
  Have rear'd their stately heads so high,
      And clothed their boughs with green;
  Their leaves the dews of evening quaff,--
      And when the wind blows loud and keen,
  I've seen the jolly timbers laugh,
      And shake their sides with merry glee--
      Wagging their heads in mockery.

      Fix'd are their feet in solid earth,
      Where winds can never blow;
  But visitings of deeper birth
      Have reach'd their roots below.
  For they have gain'd the river's brink,
  And of the living waters drink.

  There's little Will, a five years child--
      He is my youngest boy:
  To look on eyes so fair and wild,
      It is a very joy:--
  He hath conversed with sun and shower,
  And dwelt with every idle flower,
      As fresh and gay as them.
  He loiters with the briar rose,--
  The blue-belles are his play-fellows,
      That dance upon their slender stem.

  And I have said, my little Will,
  Why should not he continue still
      A thing of Nature's rearing?
  A thing beyond the world's control--
  A living vegetable soul,--
      No human sorrow fearing.

  It were a blessed sight to see
  That child become a Willow-tree,
      His brother trees among.
  He'd be four times as tall as me,
      And live three times as long.

                          _Catharine M. Fanshawe_.

THE FAMOUS BALLAD OF THE JUBILEE CUP

  You may lift me up in your arms, lad, and turn my face to the sun,
  For a last look back at the dear old track where the Jubilee cup
       was won;
  And draw your chair to my side, lad--no, thank ye, I feel no pain--
  For I'm going out with the tide, lad; but I'll tell you the tale
       again.

  I'm  seventy-nine or nearly, and my head it has long turned gray,
  But it all comes back as clearly as though it was yesterday--
  The dust, and the bookies shouting around the clerk of the scales,
  And the clerk of the course, and the nobs in force, and 'Is
       'Ighness the Pr**ce of W*les.

  'Twas a nine-hole thresh to wind'ard (but none of us cared for that),
  With a straight run home to the service tee, and a finish along
       the flat,
  "Stiff?" ah, well you may say it! Spot barred, and at five stone
       ten!
  But at two and a bisque I'd ha' run the risk; for I was a
       greenhorn then.

  So we stripped to the B. Race signal, the old red swallowtail--
  There was young Ben Bolt and the Portland Colt, and Aston Villa,
       and Yale;
  And W. G., and Steinitz, Leander and The Saint,
  And the G*rm*n Emp*r*r's Meteor, a-looking as fresh as paint;

  John Roberts (scratch), and Safety Match, The Lascar, and Lorna
       Doone,
  Oom Paul (a bye), and Romany Rye, and me upon Wooden Spoon;
  And some of us cut for partners, and some of us strung for baulk,
  And some of us tossed for stations--But there, what use to talk?

  Three-quarter-back on the Kingsclere crack was station enough for
       me,
  With a fresh jackyarder blowing and the Vicarage goal a-lee!
  And I leaned and patted her centre-bit and eased the quid in her
       cheek,
  With a "Soh my lass!" and a "Woa you brute!"--for she could do all
       but speak.

  She was geared a thought too high perhaps; she was trained a
       trifle fine;
  But she had the grand reach forward! I never saw such a line!
  Smooth-bored, clean run, from her fiddle head with its dainty ear
       half-cock,
  Hard-bit, _pur sang_, from her overhang to the heel of her off
       hind sock.

  Sir Robert he walked beside me as I worked her down to the mark;
  "There's money on this, my lad," said he, "and most of 'em's
       running dark;
  But ease the sheet if you're bunkered, and pack the scrummages
       tight,
  And use your slide at the distance, and we'll drink to your health
       to-night!"

  But I bent and tightened my stretcher. Said I to myself, said I--
  "John Jones, this here is the  Jubilee Cup, and you have to do or
       die."
  And the words weren't hardly spoken when the umpire shouted
       "Play!"
  And we all kicked off from the Gasworks End with a "Yoicks!" and a
       "Gone Away!"

  And at first I thought of nothing, as the clay flew by in lumps,
  But stuck to the old Ruy Lopez, and wondered who'd call for trumps,
  And luffed her close to the cushion, and watched each one as it
       broke,
  And in triple file up the Rowley Mile we went like a trail of smoke.

  The Lascar made the running but he didn't amount to much,
  For old Oom Paul was quick on the ball, and headed it back to touch;
  And the whole first flight led off with the right as The Saint
       took up the pace,
  And drove it clean to the putting green and trumped it there with
       an ace.

  John Roberts had given a miss in baulk, but Villa cleared with a
       punt;
  And keeping her service hard and low the Meteor forged to the front;
  With Romany Rye to windward at dormy and two to play,
  And Yale close up--but a Jubilee Cup isn't run for every day.

  We laid our course for the Warner--I tell you the pace was hot!
  And again off Tattenham Corner a blanket covered the lot.
  Check side! Check side! now steer her wide! and barely an inch of
       room,
  With The Lascar's tail over our lee rail and brushing Leander's
       boom.

  We were running as strong as ever--eight knots--but it couldn't
       last;
  For the spray and the bails were flying, the whole field tailing
       fast;
  And the Portland Colt had shot his bolt, and Yale was bumped at
       the Doves,
  And The Lascar resigned to Steinitz, stalemated in fifteen moves.

  It was bellows to mend with Roberts--starred three for a penalty
       kick:
  But he chalked his cue and gave 'em the butt, and Oom Paul marked
       the trick--
  "Offside--No Ball--and at fourteen all! Mark Cock! and two for his
       nob!"
  When W.G. ran clean through his lee and beat him twice with a lob.

  He yorked him twice on a crumbling pitch and wiped his eye with a
       brace,
  But his guy-rope split with the strain of it and he dropped back
       out of the race;
  And I drew a bead on the Meteor's lead, and challenging none too
       soon,
  Bent over and patted her garboard strake, and called upon Wooden
       Spoon.

  She was all of a shiver forward, the spoondrift thick on her flanks,
  But I'd brought her an easy gambit, and nursed her over the banks;
  She answered her helm--the darling! and woke up now with a rush,
  While the Meteor's jock, he sat like a rock--he knew we rode for
       his brush!

  There was no one else left in it. The Saint was using his whip,
  And Safety Match, with a lofting catch, was pocketed deep at slip;
  And young Ben Bolt with his niblick took miss at Leander's lunge,
  But topped the net with the ricochet, and Steinitz threw up the
       sponge.

  But none of the lot could stop the rot--nay, don't ask _me_ to stop!
  The villa had called for lemons, Oom Paul had taken his drop,
  And both were kicking the referee. Poor fellow! he done his best;
  But, being in doubt, he'd ruled them out--which he always did when
       pressed.

  So, inch by inch, I tightened the winch, and chucked the sandbags
       out--
  I heard the nursery cannons pop, I heard the bookies shout:
  "The Meteor wins!" "No, Wooden Spoon!" "Check!" "Vantage!"
       "Leg Before!"
  "Last Lap!" "Pass Nap!" At his saddle-flap I put up the helm and
       wore.

  You may overlap at the saddle-flap, and yet be loo'd on the tape:
  And it all depends upon changing ends, how a seven-year-old will
       shape;
  It was tack and tack to the Lepe and back--a fair ding-dong to the
       Ridge,
  And he led by his forward canvas yet as we shot 'neath Hammersmith
       Bridge.

  He led by his forward canvas--he led from his strongest suit--
  But along we went on a roaring scent, and at Fawley I gained a foot.
  He fisted off with his jigger, and gave me his wash--too late!
  Deuce--Vantage--Check! By neck and neck we rounded into the
       straight.

  I could hear the "Conquering 'Ero" a-crashing on Godfrey's band,
  And my hopes fell sudden to zero, just there, with the race in
       hand--
  In sight of the Turf's Blue Ribbon, in sight of the umpire's tape,
  As I felt the tack of her spinnaker c-rack! as I heard the steam
       escape!

  Had I lost at that awful juncture my presence of mind? ... but no!
  I leaned and felt for the puncture, and plugged it there with my
       toe....
  Hand over hand by the Members' Stand I lifted and eased her up,
  Shot--clean and fair--to the crossbar there, and landed the
       Jubilee Cup!

  "The odd by a head, and leg before," so the Judge he gave the word:
  And the  umpire shouted "Over!"  but I neither spoke nor stirred.
  They crowded round: for there on the ground I lay in a dead-cold
       swoon,
  Pitched neck and crop on the turf atop of my beautiful Wooden Spoon.

  Her dewlap tire was punctured, her bearings all red hot;
  She'd a lolling  tongue, and her bowsprit sprung, and her running
       gear in a knot;
  And amid the sobs of her backers, Sir Robert loosened her girth
  And led her away to the knacker's. She had raced her last on earth!

  But I mind me well of the tear that fell from the eye of our noble
       Pr*nce,
  And the things he said as he tucked me in bed--and I 've lain
       there ever since;
  Tho' it all gets mixed up queerly that happened before my spill,--
  But I draw my thousand yearly: it 'll pay for the doctor's bill.

  I'm going out with the tide, lad--you 'll dig me a numble grave,
  And whiles you will bring your bride, lad, and your sons, if sons
       you have,
  And there when  the  dews  are  weeping, and the echoes murmur
       "Peace!"
  And the salt, salt tide comes creeping and covers the
       popping-crease;

  In the hour when the ducks deposit their eggs with a boasted force,
  They'll look and whisper "How was it?" and you'll take them over
       the course,
  And your voice will break as you try to speak of the glorious
       first of June,
  When the Jubilee Cup, with John Jones up, was won upon Wooden Spoon.

                          _Arthur T. Quiller-Couch_.

A SONG OF IMPOSSIBILITIES

  Lady, I loved you all last year,
      How honestly and well--
  Alas! would weary you to hear,
      And torture me to tell;
  I raved beneath the midnight sky,
      I sang beneath the limes--
  Orlando in my lunacy,
      And Petrarch in my rhymes.
  But all is over! When the sun
      Dries up the boundless main,
  When black is white, false-hearted one,
      I may be yours again!

  When passion's early hopes and fears
      Are not derided things;
  When truth is found in falling tears,
      Or faith in golden rings;
  When the dark Fates that rule our way
      Instruct me where they hide
  One woman that would ne'er betray,
      One friend that never lied;
  When summer shines without a cloud,
      And bliss without a pain;
  When worth is noticed in a crowd,
      I may be yours again!

  When science pours the light of day
      Upon the lords of lands;
  When Huskisson is heard to say
      That Lethbridge understands;
  When wrinkles work their way in youth,
      Or Eldon's in a hurry;
  When lawyers represent the truth,
      Or Mr. Sumner Surrey;
  When aldermen taste eloquence
      Or bricklayers champagne;
  When common law is common sense,
      I may be yours again!

  When learned judges play the beau,
      Or learned pigs the tabor;
  When traveller Bankes beats Cicero,
      Or Mr. Bishop Weber;
  When sinking funds discharge a debt,
      Or female hands a bomb;
  When bankrupts study the _Gazette_,
      Or colleges _Tom Thumb_;
  When little fishes learn to speak,
      Or poets not to feign;
  When Dr. Geldart construes Greek,
      I may be yours again!

  When Pole and Thornton honor cheques,
      Or Mr. Const a rogue;
  When Jericho's in Middlesex,
      Or minuets in vogue;
  When Highgate goes to Devonport,
      Or fashion to Guildhall;
  When argument is heard at Court,
      Or Mr. Wynn at all;
  When Sydney Smith forgets to jest,
      Or farmers to complain;
  When kings that are are not the best,
      I may be yours again!

  When peers from telling money shrink,
      Or monks from telling lies;
  When hydrogen begins to sink,
      Or Grecian scrip to rise;
  When German poets cease to dream,
      Americans to guess;
  When Freedom sheds her holy beam
      On Negroes, and the Press;
  When there is any fear of Rome,
      Or any hope of Spain;
  When Ireland is a happy home,
      I may be yours again!

  When you can cancel what has been,
      Or alter what must be,
  Or bring once more that vanished scene,
      Those withered joys to me;
  When you can tune the broken lute,
      Or deck the blighted wreath,
  Or rear the garden's richest fruit,
      Upon a blasted heath;
  When you can lure the wolf at bay
      Back to his shattered chain,
  To-day may then be yesterday--
      I may be yours again!

                          _W.M. Praed_.

TRUST IN WOMEN

  When these things following be done to our intent,
  Then put women in trust and confident.

  When nettles in winter bring forth roses red,
      And all manner of thorn trees bear figs naturally,
  And geese bear pearls in every mead,
      And laurel bear cherries abundantly,
      And oaks bear dates very plenteously,
  And kisks give of honey superfluence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When box bear paper in every land and town,
      And thistles bear berries in every place,
  And pikes have naturally feathers in their crown,
      And bulls of the sea sing a good bass,
      And men be the ships fishes trace,
  And in women be found no insipience,
  Then put them in trust and confidence.

  When whitings do walk forests to chase harts,
      And herrings their horns in forests boldly blow,
  And marmsets mourn in moors and lakes,
      And gurnards shoot rooks out of a crossbow,
      And goslings hunt the wolf to overthrow,
  And sprats bear spears in armes of defence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When swine be cunning in all points of music,
      And asses be doctors of every science,
  And cats do heal men by practising of physic,
      And buzzards to scripture give any credence,
      And merchants buy with horn, instead of groats and pence,
  And pyes be made poets for their eloquence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When sparrows build churches on a height,
      And wrens carry sacks unto the mill,
  And curlews carry timber houses to dight,
      And fomalls bear butter to market to sell,
      And woodcocks bear woodknives cranes to kill,
  And greenfinches to goslings do obedience,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When crows take salmon in woods and parks,
      And be take with swifts and snails,
  And camels in the air take swallows and larks,
      And mice move mountains by wagging of their tails,
      And shipmen take a ride instead of sails,
  And when wives to their husbands do no offence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

  When antelopes surmount eagles in flight,
      And swans be swifter than hawks of the tower,
  And wrens set gos-hawks by force and might,
      And muskets make verjuice of crabbes sour,
      And ships sail on dry land, silt give flower,
  And apes in Westminster give judgment and sentence,
  Then put women in trust and confidence.

                          _Anonymous_.

HERE IS THE TALE

  AFTER RUDYARD KIPLING

  _Here is the tale--and you must make the most of it!
      Here is the rhyme--ah, listen and attend!
  Backwards--forwards--read it all and boast of it
      If you are anything the wiser at the end_!

  Now Jack looked up--it was time to sup, and the bucket was yet to
       fill,
  And Jack looked round for a space and frowned, then beckoned his
       sister Jill,
  And twice he pulled his sister's hair, and thrice he smote her side;
  "Ha' done, ha' done with your impudent fun--ha' done with your
       games!" she cried;
  "You have made mud-pies of a marvellous size--finger and face are
       black,
  You have trodden the Way of the Mire and Clay--now up and wash you,
       Jack!
  Or else, or ever we reach our home, there waiteth an angry dame--
  Well you know the weight of her blow--the supperless open shame!
  Wash, if you will, on yonder hill--wash, if you will, at the spring,--
  Or keep your dirt, to your certain hurt, and an imminent walloping!"

  "You must wash--you must scrub--you must scrape!" growled Jack,
       "you must traffic with cans and pails,
  Nor keep the spoil of the good brown soil in the rim of your
       finger-nails!
  The morning path you must tread to your bath--you must wash ere
       the night descends,
  And all for the cause of conventional laws and the soapmakers'
       dividends!
  But if 'tis sooth that our meal in truth depends on our washing,
       Jill,
  By the sacred right of our appetite--haste--haste to the top of
       the hill!"

  They have trodden the Way of the Mire and Clay, they have toiled
       and travelled far,
  They have climbed to the brow of the hill-top now, where the
       bubbling fountains are,
  They have taken the bucket and filled it up--yea, filled it up to
       the brim;
  But Jack he sneered at his sister Jill, and Jill she jeered at him:
  "What, blown already!" Jack cried out (and his was a biting mirth!)
  "You boast indeed of your wonderful speed--but what is the
       boasting worth?
  Now, if you can run as the antelope runs, and if you can turn like
       a hare,
  Come, race me, Jill, to the foot of the hill--and prove your
       boasting fair!"

  "Race? What is a race" (and a mocking face had Jill as she spake
       the word)
  "Unless for a prize the runner tries? The truth indeed ye heard,
  For I can run as the antelope runs, and I can turn like a hare:--
  The first one down wins half-a-crown--and I will race you there!"
  "Yea, if for the lesson that you will learn (the lesson of humbled
       pride)
  The price you fix at two-and-six, it shall not be denied;
  Come, take your stand at my right hand, for here is the mark we toe:
  Now, are you ready, and are you steady? Gird up your petticoats! Go!"

  And Jill she ran like a winging bolt, a bolt from the bow released,
  But Jack like a stream of the lightning gleam, with its pathway
       duly greased;
  He ran down hill in front of Jill like a summer-lightning flash--
  Till he suddenly tripped on a stone, or slipped, and fell to the
       earth with a crash.
  Then straight did rise on his wondering eyes the constellations
       fair,
  Arcturus and the Pleiades, the Greater and Lesser Bear,
  The swirling rain of a comet's train he saw, as he swiftly fell--
  And Jill came tumbling after him with a loud triumphant yell:
  "You have won, you have won, the race is done! And as for the
       wager laid--
  You have fallen down with a broken crown--the half-crown debt is
       paid!"

  They have taken Jack to the room at the back where the family
       medicines are,
  And he lies in bed with a broken head in a halo of vinegar;
  While, in that Jill had laughed her fill as her brother fell to
       earth,
  She had felt the sting of a walloping--she hath paid the price of
       her mirth!

  _Here is the tale--and now you have the whole of it,
  Here is the story--well and wisely planned,
  Beauty--Duty--these make up the soul of it--
  But, ah, my little readers, will you mark and understand_?

                          _Anthony C. Deane_.

THE AULD WIFE

  The auld wife sat at her ivied door,
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  A thing she had frequently done before;
      And her spectacles lay on her aproned knees.

  The piper he piped on the hill-top high,
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  Till the cow said "I die" and the goose asked "Why;"
      And the dog said nothing, but searched for fleas.

  The farmer he strode through the square farmyard;
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  His last brew of ale was a trifle hard,
      The connection of which with the plot one sees.

  The farmer's daughter hath frank blue eyes,
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  She hears the rooks caw in the windy skies,
      As she sits at her lattice and shells her peas.

  The farmer's daughter hath ripe red lips;
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  If you try to approach her, away she skips
      Over tables and chairs with apparent ease.

  The farmer's daughter hath soft brown hair;
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  And I met with a ballad, I can't say where,
      Which wholly consisted of lines like these.

  She sat with her hands 'neath her dimpled cheeks,
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  And spake not a word. While a lady speaks
      There is hope, but she didn't even sneeze.

  She sat with her hands 'neath her crimson cheeks;
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_)
  She gave up mending her father's breeks,
      And let the cat roll in her best chemise.

  She sat with her hands 'neath her burning cheeks
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_),
  And gazed at the piper for thirteen weeks;
      Then she followed him out o'er the misty leas.

  Her sheep followed her as their tails did them
      (_Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese_),
  And this song is considered a perfect gem,
      And as to the meaning, it's what you please.

                          _Charles S. Calverley_.

NOT I

  Some like drink
      In a pint pot,
  Some like to think,
      Some not.

  Strong Dutch cheese,
      Old Kentucky Rye,
  Some like these;
      Not I.

  Some like Poe,
      And others like Scott;
  Some like Mrs. Stowe,
      Some not.

  Some like to laugh,
      Some like to cry,
  Some like to chaff;
      Not I.

                          _R.L. Stevenson_.

MINNIE AND WINNIE

  Minnie and Winnie
      Slept in a shell.
  Sleep, little ladies!
      And they slept well.

  Pink was the shell within,
      Silver without;
  Sounds of the great sea
      Wandered about.

  Sleep little ladies!
      Wake not soon!
  Echo on echo
      Dies to the moon.

  Two bright stars
      Peep'd into the shell,
  What are they dreaming of?
      Who can tell?

  Started a green linnet
      Out of the croft;
  Wake, little ladies,
      The sun is aloft!

                          _Lord Tennyson_.

THE MAYOR OF SCUTTLETON

  The Mayor of Scuttleton burned his nose
  Trying to warm his copper toes;
  He lost his money and spoiled his will
  By signing his name with an icicle quill;
  He went bareheaded, and held his breath,
  And frightened his grandame most to death;
  He loaded a shovel and tried to shoot,
  And killed the calf in the leg of his boot;

  He melted a snowbird and formed the habit
  Of dancing jigs with a sad Welsh rabbit;
  He lived on taffy and taxed the town;
  And read his newspaper upside down;
  Then he sighed and hung his hat on a feather,
  And bade the townspeople come together;
  But the worst of it all was, nobody knew
  What the Mayor of Scuttleton next would do.

                          _Mary Mapes Dodge_.

THE PURPLE COW

  I never saw a Purple Cow,
      I never hope to see one;
  But I can tell you, anyhow,
      I'd rather see than be one.

  ENVOI

  Ah yes, I wrote the Purple Cow,
      I'm sorry now I wrote it.
  But I can tell you anyhow,
      I'll kill you if you quote it.

                          _Gelett Burgess_.

THE INVISIBLE BRIDGE

  I'd Never Dare to Walk across
      A Bridge I Could Not See;
  For Quite afraid of Falling off,
      I fear that I Should Be!

                          _Gelett Burgess_.

THE LAZY ROOF

  The Roof it has a Lazy Time
      A-lying in the Sun;
  The Walls they have to Hold Him Up;
      They do Not Have Much Fun!

                          _Gelett Burgess_.

MY FEET

  My feet, they haul me Round the House,
      They Hoist me up the Stairs;
  I only have to Steer them and
      They Ride me Everywheres.

                          _Gelett Burgess_.

THE HEN

  Alas! my Child, where is the Pen
  That can do Justice to the Hen?
  Like Royalty, She goes her way,
  Laying foundations every day,
  Though not for Public Buildings, yet
  For Custard, Cake and Omelette.

  Or if too Old for such a use
  They have their Fling at some Abuse,
  As when to Censure Plays Unfit
  Upon the Stage they make a Hit,
  Or at elections Seal the Fate
  Of an Obnoxious Candidate.
  No wonder, Child, we prize the Hen,
  Whose Egg is Mightier than the Pen.

                          _Oliver Herford_.

THE COW

  The Cow is too well known, I fear,
  To need an introduction here.
  If She should vanish from earth's face
  It would be hard to fill her place;
  For with the Cow would disappear
  So much that every one holds Dear.
  Oh, think of all the Boots and Shoes,
  Milk Punches, Gladstone Bags and Stews,
  And Things too numerous to count,
  Of which, my child, she is the Fount.
  Let's hope, at least, the Fount may last
  Until _our_ Generation's past.

                          _Oliver Herford_.

THE CHIMPANZEE

  Children, behold the Chimpanzee:
  He sits on the ancestral tree
  From which we sprang in ages gone.
  I'm glad we sprang: had we held on,
  We might, for aught that I can say,
  Be horrid Chimpanzees today.

                          _Oliver Herford_.

THE HIPPOPOTAMUS

  "Oh, say, what is this fearful, wild,
  Incorrigible cuss?"
  "This _creature_ (don't say 'cuss,' my child;
  'Tis slang)--this creature fierce is styled
  The Hippopotamus.
  His curious name derives its source
  From two Greek words: _hippos_--a horse,
  _Potamos_--river. See?
  The river's plain enough, of course;
  But why they called _that_ thing a _horse_,
  That's what is Greek to me."

                          _Oliver Herford_.

THE PLATYPUS

  My child, the Duck-billed Platypus
  A sad example sets for us:
  From him we learn how Indecision
  Of character provokes Derision.

  This vacillating Thing, you see,
  Could not decide which he would be,
  Fish, Flesh or Fowl, and chose all three.
  The scientists were sorely vexed
  To classify him; so perplexed
  Their brains, that they, with Rage at bay,
  Call him a horrid name one day,--
  A name that baffles, frights and shocks us,
  Ornithorhynchus Paradoxus.

                          _Oliver Herford_.

SOME GEESE

  Ev-er-y child who has the use
  Of his sen-ses knows a goose.
  See them un-der-neath the tree
  Gath-er round the goose-girl's knee,
  While she reads them by the hour
  From the works of Scho-pen-hau-er.

  How pa-tient-ly the geese at-tend!
  But do they re-al-ly com-pre-hend
  What Scho-pen-hau-er's driv-ing at?
  Oh, not at all; but what of that?
  Nei-ther do I; nei-ther does she;
  And, for that mat-ter, nor does he.

                          _Oliver Herford_.

THE FLAMINGO

  _Inspired by reading a chorus of spirits in a German play_

  FIRST VOICE.

  Oh! tell me have you ever seen a red, long-leg'd Flamingo?
  Oh! tell me have you ever yet seen him the water in go?

  SECOND VOICE.

  Oh! yes at Bowling-Green I've seen a red long-leg'd Flamingo,
  Oh! yes at Bowling-Green I've there seen him the water in go.

  FIRST VOICE.

  Oh! tell me did you ever see a bird so funny stand-o
  When forth he from the water comes and gets upon the land-o?

  SECOND VOICE.

  No! in my life I ne'er did see a bird so funny stand-o
  When forth he from the water comes and gets upon the land-o.

  FIRST VOICE.

  He has a leg some three feet long, or near it, so they say, Sir.
  Stiff upon one alone he stands, t'other he stows away, Sir.

  SECOND VOICE.

  And what an ugly head he's got! I wonder that he'd wear it.
  But rather _more_ I wonder that his long, thin neck can bear it.

  FIRST VOICE.

  And think, this length of neck and legs (no doubt they have their
       uses)
  Are members of a little frame, much smaller than a goose's!

  BOTH.

  Oh! isn't he a curious bird, that red, long-leg'd Flamingo?
  A water bird, a gawky bird, a sing'lar  bird, by jingo!

                          _Lewis Gaylord Clark_.

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS

  Speak gently to the herring and kindly to the calf,
  Be blithesome with the bunny, at barnacles don't laugh!
  Give nuts unto the monkey, and buns unto the bear,
  Ne'er hint at currant jelly if you chance to see a hare!
  Oh, little girls, pray hide your combs when tortoises draw nigh,
  And never in the hearing of a pigeon whisper Pie!
  But give the stranded jelly-fish a shove into the sea,--
  Be always kind to animals wherever you may be!

  Oh, make not game of sparrows, nor faces at the ram,
  And ne'er allude to mint sauce when calling on a lamb.
  Don't beard the thoughtful oyster, don't dare the cod to crimp,
  Don't cheat the pike, or ever try to pot the playful shrimp.
  Tread lightly on the turning worm, don't bruise the butterfly,
  Don't ridicule the wry-neck, nor sneer at salmon-fry;
  Oh, ne'er delight to make dogs fight, nor bantams disagree,--
  Be always kind to animals wherever you may be!

  Be lenient with lobsters, and ever kind to crabs,
  And be not disrespectful to cuttle-fish or dabs;
  Chase not the Cochin-China, chaff not the ox obese,
  And babble not of feather-beds in company with geese.
  Be tender with the tadpole, and let the limpet thrive,
  Be merciful to mussels, don't skin your eels alive;
  When talking to a turtle don't mention calipee--
  Be always kind to animals wherever you may be.

                          _J. Ashby-Sterry_.

SAGE COUNSEL

  The lion is the beast to fight,
          He leaps along the plain,
        And if you run with all your might,
      He runs with all his mane.
        I'm glad I'm not a Hottentot,
        But if I were, with outward cal-lum
            I'd either faint upon the spot
            Or hie me up a leafy pal-lum.

  The chamois is the beast to hunt;
        He's fleeter than the wind,
  And when the chamois is in front,
        The hunter is behind.
          The Tyrolese make famous cheese
          And hunt the chamois o'er the chaz-zums;
          I'd choose the former if you please,
          For precipices give me spaz-zums.

  The polar bear will make a rug
        Almost as white as snow;
  But if he gets you in his hug,
        He rarely lets you go.
          And Polar ice looks very nice,
          With all the colors of a pris-sum;
          But, if you'll follow my advice,
          Stay home and learn your catechissum.

                          _A.T. Quiller-Couch_.

OF BAITING THE LION

  Remembering his taste for blood
      You'd better bait him with a cow;
  Persuade the brute to chew the cud
      Her tail suspended from a bough;
  It thrills the lion through and through
      To hear the milky creature moo.

  Having arranged this simple ruse,
      Yourself you climb a neighboring tree;
  See to it that the spot you choose
      Commands the coming tragedy;
  Take up a smallish Maxim gun,
      A search-light, whisky, and a bun.

  It's safer, too, to have your bike
      Standing immediately below,
  In case your piece should fail to strike,
      Or deal an ineffective blow;
  The Lion moves with perfect grace,
      But cannot go the scorcher's pace.

  Keep open ear for subtle signs;
      Thus, when the cow profusely moans,
  That means to say, the Lion dines.
      The crunching sound, of course, is bones;
  Silence resumes her ancient reign--
      This shows the cow is out of pain.

  But when a fat and torpid hum
      Escapes the eater's unctuous nose,
  Turn up the light and let it come
      Full on his innocent repose;
  Then pour your shot between his eyes,
      And go on pouring till he dies.

  Play, even so, discretion's part;
      Descend with stealth; bring on your gun;
  Then lay your hand above his heart
      To see if he is really done;
  Don't skin him till you know he's dead
      Or you may perish in his stead!

  Years hence, at home, when talk is tall,
      You'll set the gun-room wide agape,
  Describing how with just a small
      Pea-rifle, going after ape
  You met a Lion unaware,
      And felled him flying through the air.

                          _Owen Seaman_.

THE FROG

  Be kind and tender to the Frog,
      And do not call him names,
  As "Slimy-Skin," or "Polly-wog,"
      Or likewise, "Uncle James,"
  Or "Gape-a-grin," or "Toad-gone-wrong,"
      Or "Billy-Bandy-knees;"
  The Frog is justly sensitive
      To epithets like these.

  No animal will more repay
      A treatment kind and fair,
  At least, so lonely people say
  Who keep a frog (and, by the way,
      They are extremely rare).

                          _Hilaire Belloc_.

THE YAK

  As a friend to the children commend me the yak,
        You will find it exactly the thing:
  It will carry and fetch, you can ride on its back,
        Or lead it about with a string.

  A Tartar who dwells on the plains of Thibet
        (A desolate region of snow)
  Has for centuries made it a nursery pet,
        And surely the Tartar should know!

  Then tell your papa where the Yak can be got,
        And if he is awfully rich,
  He will buy you the creature--or else he will not,
        (I cannot be positive which).

                          _Hilaire Belloc_.

THE PYTHON

  A python  I should not advise,
  It needs a doctor for its eyes,
        And has the measles yearly.

  However, if you feel inclined
  To get one (to improve your mind,
        And not from fashion merely),

  Allow no music near its cage;
  And when it flies into a rage
        Chastise it most severely.

  I had an Aunt in Yucatan
  Who bought a Python from a man
        And kept it for a pet.

  She died because she never knew
  These simple little rules and few;--
        The snake is living yet.

                          _Hilaire Belloc_.

THE BISON

  The Bison is vain, and (I write it with pain)
      The Door-mat you see on his head
  Is not, as some learned professors maintain,
  The opulent growth of a genius' brain;
      But is sewn on with needle and thread.

                          _Hilaire Belloc_.

THE PANTHER

  Be kind to the panther! for when thou wert young,
      In thy country far over the sea,
  'Twas a panther ate up thy papa and mamma,
      And had several mouthfuls of thee!

  Be kind to the badger! for who shall decide
      The depths of his badgerly soul?
  And think of the tapir when flashes the lamp
      O'er the fast and the free-flowing bowl.

  Be kind to the camel! nor let word of thine
      Ever put up his bactrian back;
  And cherish the she-kangaroo with her bag,
      Nor venture to give her the sack.

  Be kind to the ostrich! for how canst thou hope
      To have such a stomach as it?
  And when the proud day of your bridal shall come,
      Do give the poor birdie a bit.

  Be kind to the walrus! nor ever forget
      To have it on Tuesday to tea;
  But butter the crumpets on only one side,
      Save such as are eaten by thee.

  Be kind to the bison! and let the jackal
      In the light of thy love have a share;
  And coax the ichneumon to grow a new tail,
      And have lots of larks in its lair.

  Be kind to the bustard! that genial bird,
      And humor its wishes and ways;
  And when the poor elephant suffers from bile,
      Then tenderly lace up his stays!

                          _Anonymous_.

THE MONKEY'S GLUE

  When the monkey in his madness
      Took the glue to mend his voice,
  'Twas the crawfish showed his sadness
      That the bluebird could rejoice.

  Then the perspicacious parrot
      Sought to save the suicide
  By administering carrot,
      But the monkey merely died.

  So the crawfish and the parrot
      Sauntered slowly toward the sea,
  While the bluebird stole the carrot
      And returned the glue to me.

                          _Goldwin Goldsmith_.

THERE WAS A FROG

  There was a frog swum in the lake,
      The crab came crawling by:
  "Wilt thou," coth the frog, "be my make?"
      Coth the crab, "No, not I."
  "My skin is sooth and dappled fine,
      I can leap far and nigh.
  Thy shell is hard: so is not mine."
      Coth the crab, "No, not I."
  "Tell me," then spake the crab, "therefore,
      Or else I thee defy:
  Give me thy claw, I ask no more."
      Coth the frog, "That will I."
  The crab bit off the frog's fore-feet;
      The frog then he must die.
  To woo a crab it is not meet:
      If any do, it is not I.

                          _From Christ Church MS., I. 549_.

THE BLOATED BIGGABOON

  The bloated Biggaboon
  Was so haughty, he would not repose
  In a house, or a hall, or _ces choses_,
  But he slept his high sleep in his clothes--
        'Neath the moon.
        The bloated Biggaboon
  Pour'd contempt upon waistcoat and skirt,
  Holding swallow-tails even as dirt--
  So he puff'd himself out in his shirt,
        Like a b'loon.

                          _H. Cholmondeley-Pennell_.

WILD FLOWERS

  "Of what are you afraid, my child?" inquired the kindly teacher.
  "Oh, sir! the flowers, they are wild," replied the timid creature.

                          _Peter Newell_.

TIMID HORTENSE

  "Now, if the fish will only bite, we'll have some royal fun."
  "And do fish bite? The horrid things! Indeed, I'll not catch one!"

                          _Peter Newell_.

HER POLKA DOTS

  She played upon her music-box a fancy air by chance,
  And straightway all her polka-dots began a lively dance.

                          _Peter Newell_.

HER DAIRY

  "A milkweed, and a buttercup, and cowslip," said sweet Mary,
  "Are growing in my garden-plot, and this I call my dairy."

                          _Peter Newell_.

TURVEY TOP

  'Twas after a supper of Norfolk brawn
      That into a doze I chanced to drop,
  And thence awoke in the gray of dawn,
      In the wonder-land of Turvey Top.

  A land so strange I never had seen,
      And could not choose but look and laugh--
  A land where the small the great includes,
      And the whole is less than the half!

  A land where the circles were not lines
      Round central points, as schoolmen show,
  And the parallels met whenever they chose,
      And went playing at touch-and-go!

  There--except that every round was square
      And save that all the squares were rounds--
  No surface had limits anywhere,
      So they never could beat the bounds.

  In their gardens, fruit before blossom came,
      And the trees diminished as they grew;
  And you never went out to walk a mile,
      'Twas the mile that walked to you.

  The people there are not tall or short,
      Heavy or light, or stout or thin,
  And their lives begin where they should leave off,
      Or leave off where they should begin.

  There childhood, with naught of childish glee,
      Looks on the world with thoughtful brow;
  'Tis only the aged who laugh and crow,
      And cry, "We have done with it now!"

  A singular race! what lives they spent!
      Got up before they went to bed!
  And never a man said what he meant,
      Or a woman meant what she said.

  They blended colours that will not blend,
      All hideous contrasts voted sweet;
  In yellow and red their Quakers dress'd,
      And considered it rather neat.

  They didn't believe in the wise and good,
      Said the best were worst, the wisest fools;
  And 'twas only to have their teachers taught
      That they founded national schools.

  They read in "books that are no books,"
      Their classics--chess-boards neatly bound;
  Those their greatest authors who never wrote,
      And their deepest the least profound.

  Now, such were the folks of that wonder-land,
      A curious people, as you will own;
  But are there none of the race abroad,
      Are no specimens elsewhere known?

  Well, I think that he whose views of life
      Are crooked, wrong, perverse, and odd,
  Who looks upon all with jaundiced eyes--
      Sees himself and believes it God,

  Who sneers at the good, and makes the ill,
      Curses a world he cannot mend;
  Who measures life by the rule of wrong
      And abuses its aim and end,

  The man who stays when he ought to move,
      And only goes when he ought to stop--
  Is strangely like the folk in my dream,
      And would flourish in Turvey Top.

                          _Anonymous_.

WHAT THE PRINCE OF I DREAMT

  I dreamt it! such a funny thing--
      And now it's taken wing;
  I s'pose no man before or since
      Dreamt such a funny thing?

  It had a Dragon; with a tail;
      A tail both long and slim,
  And ev'ry day he wagg'd at it--
      How good it was of him!

  And so to him the tailest
      Of all three-tailed Bashaws,
  Suggested that for reasons
      The waggling should pause;

  And held his tail--which, parting,
      Reversed that Bashaw, which
  Reversed that Dragon, who reversed
      Himself into a ditch.

       *       *       *       *       *

  It had a monkey--in a trap--
      Suspended by the tail:
  Oh! but that monkey look'd distress'd,
      And his countenance was pale.

  And he had danced and dangled there;
      Till he grew very mad:
  For his tail it was a handsome tail
      And the trap had pinched it--bad.

  The trapper sat below, and grinn'd;
      His victim's wrath wax'd hot:
  He bit his tail in two--and fell--
      And killed him on the spot.

       *       *       *       *       *

  It had a pig--a stately pig;
      With curly tail and quaint:
  And the Great Mogul had hold of that
      Till he was like to faint.

  So twenty thousand Chinamen,
      With three tails each at least,
  Came up to help the Great Mogul,
      And took him round the waist.

  And so, the tail slipp'd through his hands;
      And so it came to pass,
  That twenty thousand Chinamen
      Sat down upon the grass.

       *       *       *       *       *

  It had a Khan--a Tartar Khan--
      With tail superb, I wis;
  And that fell graceful down a back
      Which was considered his.

  Wherefore all sorts of boys that were
      Accursed, swung by it;
  Till he grew savage in his mind
      And vex'd, above a bit:

  And so he swept his tail, as one
      Awak'ning from a dream;
  And those abominable ones
      Flew off into the stream.

  Likewise they hobbled up and down,
      Like many apples there;
  Till they subsided--and became
      Amongst the things that were.

       *       *       *       *       *

  And so it had a moral too,
      That would be bad to lose;
  "Whoever takes a Tail in hand
      Should mind his p's and queues."

  I dreamt it!--such a funny thing!
      And now it's taken wing;
  I s'pose no man before or since
      Dreamt such a funny thing?

                          _H. Cholmondeley-Pennell_.

THE DINKEY-BIRD

  In an ocean, 'way out yonder
      (As all sapient people know),
  Is the land of Wonder-Wander,
      Whither children love to go;
  It's their playing, romping, swinging,
      That give great joy to me
  While the Dinkey-Bird goes singing
      In the Amfalula-tree!

  There the gum-drops grow like cherries,
      And taffy's thick as peas,--
  Caramels you pick like berries
      When, and where, and how you please:
  Big red sugar-plums are clinging
      To the cliffs beside that sea
  Where the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the Amfalula-tree.

  So when children shout and scamper
      And make merry all the day,
  When there's naught to put a damper
      To the ardor of their play;
  When I hear their laughter ringing,
      Then I'm sure as sure can be
  That the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the Amfalula-tree.

  For the Dinkey-Bird's bravuras
      And staccatos are so sweet--
  His roulades, appogiaturas,
      And robustos so complete,
  That the youth of every nation--
      Be they near or far away--
  Have especial delectation
      In that gladsome roundelay.

  Their eyes grow bright and brighter,
      Their lungs begin to crow,
  Their hearts get light and lighter,
      And their cheeks are all aglow;
  For an echo cometh bringing
      The news to all and me.
  That the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the Amfalula-tree.

  I'm sure you'd like to go there
      To see your feathered friend--
  And so many goodies grow there
      You would like to comprehend!
  _Speed, little dreams, your winging
      To that land across the sea
  Where the Dickey-Bird is singing
      In the Amfalula-Tree_!

                          _Eugene Field_.

THE MAN IN THE MOON

  Said the Raggedy Man on a hot afternoon,
      "My!
        Sakes!
          What a lot o' mistakes
  Some little folks makes on the Man in the Moon!
  But people that's been up to see him like Me,
  And calls on him frequent and intimutly,
  Might drop a few hints that would interest you
      Clean!
        Through!
          If you wanted 'em to--
  Some actual facts that might interest you!"

  "O the Man in the Moon has a crick in his back;
      Whee!
        Whimm!
          Ain't you sorry for him?
  And a mole on his nose that is purple and black;
  And his eyes are so weak that they water and run
  If he dares to _dream_ even he looks at the sun,--
  So he jes' dreams of stars, as the doctors advise--
        My!
            Eyes!
                But isn't he wise--
  To jes' dream of stars, as the doctors advise?"

  "And the Man in the Moon has a boil on his ear--
        Whee!
            Whing!
                What a singular thing!
  I know! but these facts are authentic, my dear,--
  There's a boil on his ear; and a corn on his chin,--
  He calls it a dimple,--but dimples stick in,--
  Yet it might be a dimple turned over, you know!
        Whang!
            Ho!
                Why certainly so!--
  It might be a dimple turned over, you know!"

  "And the Man in the Moon has a rheumatic knee,
        Gee!
            Whizz!
                What a pity that is!
  And his toes have worked round where his heels ought to be.
  So whenever he wants to go North he goes South,
  And comes back with the porridge crumbs all round his mouth,
  And he brushes them off with a Japanese fan,
        Whing!
            Whann!
                What a marvellous man!
  What a very remarkably marvellous man!"

  "And the Man in the Moon," sighed the Raggedy Man,
        "Gits!
            So!
                Sullonesome, you know!
  Up there by himself since creation began!--
  That when I call on him and then come away,
  He grabs me and holds me and begs me to stay,--
  Till--well, if it wasn't for _Jimmy-cum-Jim_,
        Dadd!
            Limb!
                I'd go pardners with him!
  Jes' jump my bob here and be pardners with him!"

                          _James Whitcomb Riley_.

THE STORY OF THE WILD HUNTSMAN

  This is the Wild Huntsman that shoots the hares;
  With the grass-green coat he always wears;
  With game-bag, powder-horn and gun,
  He's going out to have some fun.
  He finds it hard without a pair
  Of spectacles, to shoot the hare.

  He put his spectacles upon his nose, and said,
  "Now I will shoot the hares and kill them dead."
  The hare sits snug in leaves and grass,
  And laughs to see the green man pass.
  Now as the sun grew very hot,
  And he a heavy gun had got,
  He lay down underneath a tree
  And went to sleep as you may see.
  And, while he slept like any top,
  The little hare came, hop, hop, hop,--
  Took gun and spectacles, and then
  Softly on tiptoe went off again.
  The green man wakes, and sees her place
  The spectacles upon her face.
  She pointed the gun at the hunter's heart,
  Who jumped up at once with a start.
  He cries, and screams, and runs away.
  "Help me, good people, help! I pray."
  At last he stumbled at the well,
  Head over ears, and in he fell.
  The hare stopped short, took aim, and hark!
  Bang went the gun!--she missed her mark!
  The poor man's wife was drinking up
  Her coffee in her coffee-cup;
  The gun shot cup and saucer through;
  "Oh dear!" cried she, "what shall I do?"
  Hiding close by the cottage there,
  Was the hare's own child, the little hare.
  When he heard the shot he quickly arose,
  And while he stood upon his toes,
  The coffee fell and burned his nose;
  "Oh dear," he cried, "what burns me so?"
  And held up the spoon with his little toe.

                          _Dr. Heinrich Hoffman_.

THE STORY OF PYRAMID THOTHMES

  Thothmes, who loved a pyramid,
  And dreamed of wonders that it hid,
  Took up again one afternoon,
  His longest staff, his sandal shoon,
  His evening meal, his pilgrim flask,
  And set himself at length the task,
  Scorning the smaller and the small,
  To climb the highest one of all.

  The sun was very hot indeed,
  Yet Thothmes never slacked his speed
  Until upon the topmost stone
  He lightly sat him down alone
  To make himself some pleasant cheer
  And turned to take his flask of beer,
  For he was weary and athirst.
  Forth from the neck the stopper burst
  And rudely waked the sleeping dead.
  In terror guilty Thothmes fled
  As rose majestic, wroth and slow,
  The Pharaoh's Ka of long ago.
  "Help! help!" he cried, "or I am lost!
  Oh! save me from old Pharaoh's ghost!"

  Till, uttering one fearful yell,
  He stumbled at the base and fell
  Where Anubis was at his side,
  And, by the god of death, he died.

  The wife of Thothmes learned his tale
  First from the "Memphis Evening Mail,"
  And called her son, and told their woe;
  "Alas!" said she, "I told him so!
  Oh, think upon these awful things
  And mount not on the graves of kings!
  A pyramid is strange to see,
  Though only at its base you be."

                          _Anonymous_.

THE STORY OF CRUEL PSAMTEK

  Here is cruel Psamtek, see.
  Such a wicked boy was he!
  Chased the ibis round about,
  Plucked its longest feathers out,
  Stamped upon the sacred scarab
  Like an unbelieving Arab,
  Put the dog and cat to pain,
  Making them to howl again.
  Only think what he would do--
  Tease the awful Apis too!
  Basking by the sacred Nile
  Lay the trusting crocodile;
  Cruel Psamtek crept around him,
  Laughed to think how he had found him,
  With his pincers seized his tail,
  Made the holy one to wail;
  Till a priest of Isis came,
  Called the wicked boy by name,
  Shut him in a pyramid,
  Where his punishment was hid.
  --But the crocodile the while
  Bore the pincers up the Nile--
  Here the scribe who taught him letters,
  And respect for all his betters,
  Gave him many a heavy task,
  Horrid medicines from a flask,
  While on bread and water, too,
  Bitter penance must he do.

  The Crocodile is blythe and gay,
  With friends and family at play,
  And cries, "O blessed Land of Nile,
  Where sacred is the crocodile,
  Where no ill deed unpunished goes,
  And man himself rewards our foes!"

                          _Anonymous_.

THE CUMBERBUNCE

  I strolled beside the shining sea,
  I was as lonely as could be;
  No one to cheer me in my walk
  But stones and sand, which cannot talk--
  Sand and stones and bits of shell,
  Which never have a thing to tell.

  But as I sauntered by the tide
  I saw a something at my side,
  A something green, and blue, and pink,
  And brown, and purple, too, I think.
  I would not say how large it was;
  I would not venture that, because
  It took me rather by surprise,
  And I have not the best of eyes.

  Should you compare it to a cat,
  I'd say it was as large as that;
  Or should you ask me if the thing
  Was smaller than a sparrow's wing,
  I should be apt to think you knew,
  And simply answer, "Very true!"

  Well, as I looked upon the thing,
  It murmured, "Please, sir, can I sing?"
  And then I knew its name at once--
  It plainly was a Cumberbunce.

  You are amazed that I could tell
  The creature's name so quickly? Well,
  I knew it was not a paper-doll,
  A pencil or a parasol,
  A tennis-racket or a cheese,
  And, as it was not one of these,
  And I am not a perfect dunce--
  It had to be a Cumberbunce!

  With pleading voice and tearful eye
  It seemed as though about to cry.
  It looked so pitiful and sad
  It made me feel extremely bad.
  My heart was softened to the thing
  That asked me if it, please, could sing.
  Its little hand I longed to shake,
  But, oh, it had no hand to take!
  I bent and drew the creature near,
  And whispered in its pale blue ear,
  "What! Sing, my Cumberbunce? You can!
  Sing on, sing loudly, little man!"

  The Cumberbunce, without ado,
  Gazed sadly on the ocean blue,
  And, lifting up its little head,
  In tones of awful longing, said:

    "Oh, I would sing of mackerel skies,
      And why the sea is wet,
    Of jelly-fish and conger-eels,
       And things that I forget.
    And I would hum a plaintive tune
      Of why the waves are hot
    As water boiling on a stove,
      Excepting that they're not!"

    "And I would sing of hooks and eyes,
      And why the sea is slant,
    And gayly tips the little ships,
      Excepting that I can't!
    I never sang a single song,
      I never hummed a note.
    There is in me no melody,
      No music in my throat."

    "So that is why I do not sing
    Of sharks, or whales, or anything!"

  I looked in innocent surprise,
  My wonder showing in my eyes.
  "Then why, O, Cumberbunce," I cried,
  "Did you come walking at my side
  And ask me if you, please, might sing,
  When you could not warble anything?"

  "I did not ask permission, sir,
  I really did not, I aver.
  You, sir, misunderstood me, quite.
  I did not ask you if I _might_.
  Had you correctly understood,
  You'd know I asked you if I _could_.
  So, as I cannot sing a song,
  Your answer, it is plain, was wrong.
  The fact I could not sing I knew,
  But wanted your opinion, too."

    A voice came softly o'er the lea.
      "Farewell! my mate is calling me!"

  I saw the creature disappear,
  Its voice, in parting, smote my ear--

  "I thought all people understood
  The difference 'twixt 'might' and 'could'!"

                          _Paul West_.

THE AHKOND OF SWAT

  Who, or why, or which, or _what_,
                                Is the Ahkond of Swat?

  Is he tall or short, or dark or fair?
  Does he sit on a stool or sofa or chair,
                                             or Squat,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Is he wise or foolish, young or old?
  Does he drink his soup and his coffee cold,
                                               or Hot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he sing or whistle, jabber or talk,
  And when riding abroad does he gallop or walk,
                                              or Trot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he wear a turban, a fez or a hat?
  Does he sleep on a mattress, a bed or a mat,
                                             or a Cot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  When he writes a copy in round-hand size,
  Does he cross his t's and finish his i's
                                           with a Dot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Can he write a letter concisely clear,
  Without a speck or a smudge or smear
                                              or Blot,
                                   The Ahkond of Swat?

  Do his people like him extremely well?
  Or do they, whenever they can, rebel,
                                             or Plot,
                               At the Ahkond of Swat?

  If he catches them then, either old or young,
  Does he have them chopped in pieces or hung,
                                             or Shot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Do his people prig in the lanes or park?
  Or even at times, when days are dark,
                                             Garotte?
                              Oh, the Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he study the wants of his own dominion?
  Or doesn't he care for public opinion
                                               a Jot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  To amuse his mind do his people show him
  Pictures, or any one's last new poem,
                                             or What,
                              For the Ahkond of Swat?

  At night if he suddenly screams and wakes,
  Do they bring him only a few small cakes,
                                            or a Lot,
                              For the Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he live on turnips, tea or tripe,
  Does he like his shawl to be marked with a stripe
                                            or a Dot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he like to lie on his back in a boat
  Like the lady who lived in that isle remote,
                                             Shalott.
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Is he quiet, or always making a fuss?
  Is his steward a Swiss or a Swede or a Russ,
                                           or a Scot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he like to sit by the calm blue wave?
  Or to sleep and snore in a dark green cave,
                                          or a Grott,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he drink small beer from a silver jug?
  Or a bowl? or a glass? or a cup? or a mug?
                                            or a Pot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he beat his wife with a gold-topped pipe,
  When she lets the gooseberries grow too ripe,
                                              or Rot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he wear a white tie when he dines with his friends,
  And tie it neat in a bow with ends,
                                           or a Knot,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he like new cream, and hate mince-pies?
  When he looks at the sun does he wink his eyes,
                                              or Not,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Does he teach his subjects to roast and bake?
  Does he sail about on an inland lake,
                                          in a Yacht,
                                  The Ahkond of Swat?

  Some one, or nobody knows I wot
  Who or which or why or what
                               Is the Ahkond of Swat!

                          _Edward Lear_.

A THRENODY

  What, what, what,
  What's the news from Swat?
  Sad news,
  Bad news,
  Comes by the cable led
  Through the Indian Ocean's bed,
  Through the Persian Gulf, the Red
  Sea and the Med-
  Iterranean--he's dead;
  The Ahkoond is dead!

  For the Ahkoond I mourn,
        Who wouldn't?
  He strove to disregard the message stern,
        But he Ahkoodn't.
  Dead, dead, dead;
        (Sorrow Swats!)
  Swats wha hae wi' Ahkoond bled,
  Swats whom he hath often led
  Onward to a gory bed,
        Or to Victory,
        As the case might be,
          Sorrow Swats!
        Tears shed,
          Tears shed like water,
  Your great Ahkoond is dead!
        That Swats the matter!

  Mourn, city of Swat!
  Your great Ahkoond is not,
  But lain 'mid worms to rot.
  His mortal part alone, his soul was caught
        (Because he was a good Ahkoond)
        Up to the bosom of Mahound.
  Though earthly walls his frame surround
  (Forever hallowed be the ground!)
  And sceptics mock the lowly mound
  And say "He's now of no Ahkoond!"
        His soul is in the skies--
  The azure skies that bend above his loved
          Metropolis of Swat.
     He sees with larger, other eyes,
        Athwart all earthly mysteries--
        He knows what's Swat.

  Let Swat bury the great Ahkoond
      With a noise of mourning and of lamentation!
  Let Swat bury the great Ahkoond
      With the noise of the mourning of the Swattish nation!
        Fallen is at length
        Its tower of strength,
  Its sun is dimmed ere it had nooned;
  Dead lies the great Ahkoond,
        The great Ahkoond of Swat
        Is not!

                          _George Thomas Lanigan_.

DIRGE OF THE MOOLLA OF KOTAL

  _Rival of the Akhoond of Swat_

  I.

  Alas, unhappy land;  ill-fated spot
  Kotal--though where or what
  On earth Kotal is, the bard has forgot;
  Further than this indeed he knoweth not--
  It borders upon Swat!

  II.

  When sorrows come, they come not single spies,
        But in battal-
  Ions: the gloom that lay on Swat now lies
        Upon Kotal,
  On sad Kotal, whose people ululate
  For their loved Moolla late.
  Put away his little turban,
  And his narghileh embrowned,
  The lord of Kotal--rural urban--
  'S gone unto his last Akhoond,
  'S gone to meet his rival Swattan,
  'S gone, indeed, but not forgotten.

  III.

  His rival, but in what?
  Wherein did the deceased Akhoond of Swat
  Kotal's lamented Moolla late,
  As it were, emulate?
  Was it in the tented field
  With crash of sword on shield,
  While backward meaner champions reeled
  And loud the tom-tom pealed?
  Did they barter gash for scar
  With the Persian scimetar
  Or the Afghanistee tulwar,
  While loud the tom-tom pealed--
  While loud the tom-tom pealed,
  And the jim-jam squealed,
  And champions less well heeled
  Their war-horses wheeled
  And fled the presence of these mortal big bugs o'
            the field?
  Was Kotal's proud citadel--
  Bastioned, and demi-luned,
  Beaten down with shot and shell
  By the guns of the Akhoond?
  Or were wails despairing caught, as
  The burghers pale of Swat
  Cried in panic, "Moolla ad Portas"?
          --Or what?
  Or made each in the cabinet his mark
  Kotalese Gortschakoff, Swattish Bismarck?
  Did they explain and render hazier
  The policies of Central Asia?
  Did they with speeches from the throne,
          Wars dynastic,
  Ententes cordiales,
  Between Swat and Kotal;
  Holy alliances,
  And other appliances
  Of statesmen with morals and consciences
          plastic
  Come by much more than their own?
  Made they mots, as "There to-day are
  No more Himalayehs,"
  Or, if you prefer it, "There to-day are
  No more Himalaya"?
  Oi, said the Akhoond, "Sah,
  L'tat de Swat c'est moi"?
  Khabu, did there come great fear
  On thy Khabuldozed Ameer
          Ali Shere?

  Or did the Khan of far
        Kashgar
  Tremble at the menace hot
  Of the Moolla of Kotal,
  "I will extirpate thee, pal
  Of my foe the Akhoond of Swat"?
        Who knows
  Of Moolla and Akhoond aught more than I did?
  Namely, in life they rivals were, or foes,
  And in their deaths not very much divided?
  If any one knows it,
  Let him disclose it!

                          _George Thomas Lanigan_.

RUSSIAN AND TURK

  There was a Russian came over the sea,
      Just when the war was growing hot;
  And his name it was Tjalikavakaree-
      Karindobrolikanahudarot-
        Shibkadirova-
        Ivarditztova
        Sanilik
        Danerik
        Varagobhot.

  A Turk was standing upon the shore--
      Right where the terrible Russian crossed,
  And he cried: "Bismillah!  I'm Ab-El Kor-
      Bazarou-Kilgonautosgobross-
        Getfinpravadi-
        Kligekoladji
        Grivino
        Blivido-
        Jenikodosk!"

  So they stood like brave men long and well;
      And they called each other their proper names,
  Till the lockjaw seized them, and where they fell
       They buried them both by the Irdesholmmes
         Kalatalustchuk
         Mischtaribusiclup-
         Bulgari-
         Dulbary-
         Sagharimsing.

                          _Anonymous_.

LINES TO  MISS FLORENCE HUNTINGDON

  Sweet maiden of Passamaquoddy,
      Shall we seek for communion of souls
  Where the deep Mississippi meanders,
      Or the distant Saskatchewan rolls?

  Ah no,--for in Maine I will find thee
      A sweetly sequestrated nook,
  Where the far-winding Skoodoowabskooksis
      Conjoins with the Skoodoowabskook.

  There wander two beautiful rivers,
      With many a winding and crook;
  The one is the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      The other--the Skoodoowabskook.

  Ah, sweetest of haunts! though unmentioned
      In geography, atlas, or book,
  How fair is the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      When joining the Skoodoowabskook!

  Our cot shall be close by the waters
      Within that sequestrated nook--
  Reflected in Skoodoowabskooksis
      And mirrored in Skoodoowabskook.

  You shall sleep to the music of leaflets,
      By zephyrs in wantonness shook,
  And dream of the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      And, perhaps, of the Skoodoowabskook.

  When awaked by the hens and the roosters,
      Each morn, you shall joyously look
  On the junction of Skoodoowabskooksis
      With the soft gliding Skoodoowabskook.

  Your food shall be fish from the waters,
      Drawn forth on the point of a hook,
  From murmuring Skoodoowabskooksis,
      Or wandering Skoodoowabskook!

  You shall quaff the most sparkling of water,
      Drawn forth from a silvery brook
  Which flows to the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      And then to the Skoodoowabskook!

  And you shall preside at the banquet,
      And I will wait on thee as cook;
  And we'll talk of the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      And sing of the Skoodoowabskook!

  Let others sing loudly of Saco,
      Of Quoddy, and Tattamagouche,
  Of Kennebeccasis, and Quaco,
      Of Merigonishe, and Buctouche,

  Of Nashwaak, and Magaguadavique,
      Or Memmerimammericook,--
  There's none like the Skoodoowabskooksis,
      Excepting the Skoodoowabskook!

                          _Anonymous_.

COBBE'S PROPHECIES

  When the day and the night do meete
  And the houses are even with the streete:
  And the fire and the water agree,
  And blinde men have power to see:
  When the Wolf and the Lambe lie down togither,
  And the blasted trees will not wither:
  When the flood and the ebbe run one way,
  And the Sunne and the Moone are at a stay;
  When Age and Youth are all one,
  And the Miller creepes through the Mill-stone:
  When the Ram butts the Butcher on the head,
  And the living are buried with the dead.
  When the Cobler doth worke without his ends,
  And the Cutpurse and the Hangman are friends:
  Strange things will then be to see,
  But I think it will never be!

                          --_1614_.

AN UNSUSPECTED FACT

  If down his throat a man should choose
      In fun, to jump or slide,
  He'd scrape his shoes against his teeth,
      Nor dirt his own inside.
  But if his teeth were lost and gone,
  And not a stump to scrape upon,
  He'd see at once how very pat
  His tongue lay there by way of mat,
  And he would wipe his feet on _that_!

                          _Edward Cannon_.

THE SORROWS OF WERTHER

  Werther had a love for Charlotte
      Such as words could never utter;
  Would you know how first he met her?
      She was cutting bread and butter.

  Charlotte was a married lady,
      And a moral man was Werther,
  And for all the wealth of Indies,
      Would do nothing for to hurt her.

  So he sigh'd and pined and ogled,
      And his passion boil'd and bubbled,
  Till he blew his silly brains out,
      And no more was by it troubled.

  Charlotte, having seen his body
      Borne before her on a shutter,
  Like a well-conducted person,
      Went on cutting bread and butter.

                          _W.M. Thackeray_.

NONSENSE VERSES

  Lazy-bones, lazy-bones, wake up and peep!
  The cat's in the cupboard, your mother's asleep.
  There you sit snoring, forgetting her ills;
  Who is to give her her Bolus and Pills?
  Twenty fine Angels must come into town,
  All for to help you to make your new gown:
  Dainty aerial Spinsters and Singers;
  Aren't you ashamed to employ such white fingers?
  Delicate hands, unaccustom'd to reels,
  To set 'em working a poor body's wheels?
  Why they came down is to me all a riddle,
  And left Hallelujah broke off in the middle:
  Jove's Court, and the Presence angelical, cut--
  To eke out the work of a lazy young slut.
  Angel-duck, Angel-duck, winged and silly,
  Pouring a watering-pot over a lily,
  Gardener gratuitous, careless of pelf,
  Leave her to water her lily herself,
  Or to neglect it to death if she chuse it:
  Remember the loss is her own if she lose it.

                          _Charles Lamb_.

THE NOBLE TUCK-MAN

  Americus, as he did wend
      With A. J. Mortimer, his chum,
  The two were greeted by a friend,
      "And how are you, boys, Hi, Ho, Hum?"

  He spread a note so crisp, so neat
      (Ho, and Hi, and tender Hum),
  "If you of this a fifth can eat
      I'll give you the remainder. Come!"

  To the tuck-shop three repair,
      (Ho, and Hum, and pensive Hi),
  One looks on to see all's fair,
     Two call out for hot mince-pie.

  Thirteen tarts, a few Bath buns
      (Hi, and Hum, and gorgeous Ho),
  Lobster cakes (the butter'd ones),
      All at once they cry, "No go."

  Then doth tuck-man smile. "Them there
      (Ho, and Hi, and futile Hum)
  Jellies three and sixpence air,
      Use of spoons an equal sum."

  Three are rich. Sweet task 'tis o'er,
      "Tuckman, you're a brick," they cry,
  Wildly then shake hands all four
      (Hum and Ho, the end is Hi).

                          _Jean Ingelow_.

THE PESSIMIST

  Nothing to do but work,
      Nothing to eat but food,
  Nothing to wear but clothes
      To keep one from going nude.

  Nothing to breathe but air,
      Quick as a flash 'tis gone;
  Nowhere to fall but off,
      Nowhere to stand but on.

  Nothing to comb but hair,
      Nowhere to sleep but in bed,
  Nothing to weep but tears,
      Nothing to bury but dead.

  Nothing to sing but songs,
      Ah, well, alas! alack!
  Nowhere to go but out,
      Nowhere to come but back.

  Nothing to see but sights,
      Nothing to quench but thirst,
  Nothing to have but what we've got;
      Thus thro' life we are cursed.

  Nothing to strike but a gait;
      Everything moves that goes.
  Nothing at all but common sense
      Can ever withstand these woes.

                          _Ben King_.

THE MODERN HIAWATHA

  He killed the noble Mudjokivis.
  Of the skin he made him mittens,
  Made them with the fur side inside,
  Made them with the skin side outside.
  He, to get the warm side inside,
  Put the inside skin side outside;
  He, to get the cold side outside,
  Put the warm side fur side inside.
  That's why he put the fur side inside,
  Why he put the skin side outside,
  Why he turned them inside outside.

                          _Anonymous_.

ON THE ROAD

  Said Folly to Wisdom,
      "Pray, where are we going?"
  Said Wisdom to Folly,
      "There's no way of knowing."

  Said Folly to Wisdom,
      "Then what shall we do?"
  Said Wisdom to Folly,
      "I thought to ask you."

                          _Tudor Jenks_.

UNCLE SIMON AND UNCLE JIM

  Uncle Simon he
  Clum up a tree
  To see what he could see
  When presentlee
  Uncle Jim
  Clum up beside of him
  And squatted down by he.

                          _Artemus Ward_.

POOR DEAR GRANDPAPA

  What is the matter with Grandpapa?
  What can the matter be?
  He's broken his leg in trying to spell
  Tommy without a T.

                          _D' Arcy W. Thompson_.

THE SEA-SERPENT

  All bones but yours will rattle when I say
  I'm the sea-serpent from America.
  Mayhap you've heard that I've been round the world;
  I guess I'm round it now, Mister, twice curled.
  Of all the monsters through the deep that splash,
  I'm "number one" to all immortal smash.
  When I lie down and would my length unroll,
  There ar'n't half room enough 'twixt pole and pole.
  In short, I grow so long that I've a notion
  I must be measured soon for a new ocean.

                          _Planch_.

MELANCHOLIA

  I am a peevish student, I;
  My star is gone from yonder sky.
  I think it went so high at first
  That it just went and gone and burst.

                          _Anonymous_.

THE MONKEY'S WEDDING

  The monkey married the Baboon's sister,
  Smacked his lips and then he kissed her,
  He kissed so hard he raised a blister.
        She set up a yell.
  The bridesmaid stuck on some court plaster,
  It stuck so fast it couldn't stick faster,
  Surely 't was a sad disaster,
        But it soon got well.

  What do you think the bride was dressed in?
  White gauze veil and a green glass breast-pin,
  Red kid shoes--she was quite interesting,
        She was quite a belle.
  The bridegroom swell'd with a blue shirt collar,
  Black silk stock that cost a dollar,
  Large false whiskers the fashion to follow;
        He cut a monstrous swell.

  What do you think they had for supper?
  Black-eyed peas and bread and butter,
  Ducks in the duck-house all in a flutter,
        Pickled oysters too.
  Chestnuts raw and boil'd and roasted,
  Apples sliced and onions toasted,
  Music in the corner posted,
        Waiting for the cue.

  What do you think was the tune they danced to?
  "The drunken Sailor"--sometimes "Jim Crow,"
  Tails in the way--and some got pinched, too,
        'Cause they were too long.
  What do you think they had for a fiddle?
  An old Banjo with a hole in the middle,
  A Tambourine made out of a riddle,
        And that's the end of my song.

                          _Anonymous_.

MR. FINNEY'S TURNIP

  Mr. Finney had a turnip
  And it grew and it grew,
  And it grew behind the barn,
  And that turnip did no harm.

  There it grew and it grew
  Till it could grow no longer;
  Then his daughter Lizzie picked it
  And put it in the cellar.

  There it lay and it lay
  Till it began to rot;
  And his daughter Susie took it
  And put it in the pot.

  And they boiled it and boiled it
  As long as they were able,
  And then his daughters took it
  And put it on the table.

  Mr. Finney and his wife
  They sat down to sup;
  And they ate and they ate
  And they ate that turnip up.

                          _Anonymous_..

THE SUN

  The Sun, yon glorious orb of day,
  Ninety-four million miles away,
  Will keep revolving in its orbit
  Till heat and motion reabsorb it.

                          _J. Davis_.

THE AUTUMN  LEAVES

  The Autumn leaves are falling,
  Are falling here and there.
  They're falling through the atmosphere
  And also through the air.

                          _Anonymous_.

IN THE NIGHT

  The night was growing old
  As she trudged through snow and sleet;
  Her nose was long and cold,
  And her shoes were full of feet.

                              _Anonymous_.

POOR BROTHER

  How very sad it is to think
  Our poor benighted brother
  Should have his head upon one end,
  His feet upon the other.

                          _Anonymous_.

_THE  BOY_

  Down through the snow-drifts in the street
  With blustering joy he steers;
  His rubber boots are full of feet
  And his tippet full of ears.

                          _Eugene Field_.

_THE SEA_

  Behold the wonders of the mighty deep,
  Where crabs and lobsters learn to creep,
  And little fishes learn to swim,
  And clumsy sailors tumble in.

                          _Anonymous_.

_THERE WAS A LITTLE GIRL_

  There was a little girl,
      And she had a little curl
  Right in the middle of her forehead.
  When she was good
  She was very, very good,
      And when she was bad she was horrid.

  One day she went upstairs,
  When her parents, unawares,
      In the kitchen were occupied with meals
  And she stood upon her head
  In her little trundle-bed,
      And then began hooraying with her heels.

  Her mother heard the noise,
  And she thought it was the boys
      A-playing at a combat in the attic;
  But when she climbed the stair,
  And found Jemima there,
      She took and she did spank her most emphatic.

                          _H. W. Longfellow_.

FIN DE SICLE

  The sorry world is sighing now;
      _La Grippe _is at the door;
  And many folks are dying now
      Who never died before.

                          _Newton Mackintosh_.

MARY JANE

  Mary Jane was a farmer's daughter,
  Mary Jane did what she oughter.
  She fell in love--but all in vain;
  Oh, poor Mary! oh, poor Jane!

                          _Anonymous_.

TENDER-HEARTEDNESS

  Little Willie, in the best of sashes,
  Fell in the fire and was burned to ashes.
  By and by the room grew chilly,
  But no one liked to poke up Willie.

                          _Col. D. Streamer_.

IMPETUOUS  SAMUEL

  Sam had spirits naught could check,
      And to-day, at breakfast, he
  Broke his baby sister's neck,
      So he sha'n't have jam for tea!

                          _Col. D. Streamer_.

MISFORTUNES NEVER COME SINGLY

  Making toast at the fireside,
  Nurse fell in the grate and died;
  And, what makes it ten times worse,
  All the toast was burned with Nurse.

                          _Col. D. Streamer_.

AUNT  ELIZA

  In the drinking-well
      (Which the plumber built her)
  Aunt Eliza fell,--
      We must buy a filter.

                          _Col. D. Streamer_.

SUSAN

  Susan poisoned her grandmother's tea;
  Grandmamma died in agonee.
  Susan's papa was greatly vexed,
  And he said to Susan, "My dear, what next?"

                          _Anonymous_.

BABY AND MARY

  Baby sat on the window-seat;
  Mary pushed Baby into the street;
  Baby's brains were dashed out in the "arey";
  And mother held up her forefinger at Mary.

                          _Anonymous_.

THE SUNBEAM

  I dined with a friend in the East, one day,
      Who had no window-sashes;
  A sunbeam through the window came
      And burnt his wife to ashes.
  "John, sweep your mistress away," said he,
  "And bring fresh wine for my friend and me."

                          _Anonymous_.

LITTLE WILLIE

  Little Willie hung his sister,
  She was dead before we missed her.
  "Willie's always up to tricks!
  Ain't he cute? He's only six!"

                          _Anonymous_.

MARY AMES

  Pity now poor Mary Ames,
  Blinded by her brother James;
  Red-hot nails in her eyes he poked,--
  I never saw Mary more provoked.

                          _Anonymous_.

MUDDLED METAPHORS

    _By a Moore-ose Melodist_

  Oh, ever thus from childhood's hour,
      I've seen my fondest hopes recede!
  I never loved a tree or flower
      That didn't trump its partner's lead.

  I never nursed a dear gazelle,
      To glad me with its dappled hide,
  But when it came to know me well,
      It fell upon the buttered side.

  I never taught a cockatoo
      To whistle comic songs profound,
  But, just when "Jolly Dogs" it knew,
      It failed for ninepence in the pound.

  I never reared a walrus cub
      In my aquarium to plunge,
  But, when it learned to love its tub,
      It placidly threw up the sponge!

  I never strove a metaphor
      To every bosom home to bring
  But--just as it had reached the door--
      It went and cut a pigeon's wing!

                          _Tom Hood, Jr_.

VILLON'S STRAIGHT TIP TO ALL CROSS COVES

    "_Tout aux tavernes et aux fiells_"

  Suppose you screeve? or go cheap-jack?
      Or fake the broads? or fig a nag?
  Or thimble-rig? or knap a yack?
      Or pitch a snide? or smash a rag?
      Suppose you duff? or nose and lag?
  Or get the straight, and land your pot?
      How do you melt the multy swag?
  Booze and the blowens cop the lot.

  Fiddle, or fence, or mace, or mack;
      Or moskeneer, or flash the drag;
  Dead-lurk a crib, or do a crack;
      Pad with a slang, or chuck a fag;
      Bonnet, or tout, or mump and gag;
  Rattle the tats, or mark the spot;
      You cannot bag a single stag;
  Booze and the blowens cop the lot.

  Suppose you try a different tack,
      And on the square you flash your flag?
  At penny-a-lining make your whack,
      Or with the mummers mug and gag?
      For nix, for nix the dibbs you bag!
  At any graft, no matter what,
      Your merry goblins soon stravag:
  Booze and the blowens cop the lot.

  THE MORAL

      It's up the spout and Charley Wag
  With wipes and tickers and what not
      Until the squeezer nips your scrag,
  Booze and the blowens cop the lot.

                          _W. E. Henley_.

ODE TO THE HUMAN HEART

  Blind Thamyris, and blind M. onides,
      Pursue the triumph and partake the gale!
  Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees,
      To point a moral or adorn a tale.

  Full many a gem of purest ray serene,
      Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears,
  Like angels' visits, few and far between,
      Deck the long vista of departed years.

  Man never is, but always to be bless'd;
      The tenth transmitter of a foolish face,
  Like Aaron's serpent, swallows up the rest,
      And makes a sunshine in the shady place.

  For man the hermit sigh'd, till woman smiled,
      To waft a feather or to drown a fly,
  (In wit a man, simplicity a child,)
      With silent finger pointing to the sky.

  But fools rush in where angels fear to tread,
      Far out amid the melancholy main;
  As when a vulture on Imaus bred,
      Dies of a rose in aromatic pain.

                          _Laman Blanchard_.

IMERICKS

  There was an old person of Ware
  Who rode on the back of a bear;
      When they said, "Does it trot?"
      He said: "Certainly not,
  It's a Moppsikon Floppsikon bear."

  There was an old person of Wick,
  Who said, "Tick-a-Tick, Tick-a-Tick,
      Chickabee, Chickabaw,"
      And he said nothing more,
  This laconic old person of Wick.

  There was an old person of Woking,
  Whose mind was perverse and provoking;
      He sate on a rail,
      With his head in a pail,
  That illusive old person of Woking.

  There was once a man with a beard
  Who said, "It is just as I feared!--
      Two Owls and a Hen,
      Four Larks and a Wren
  Have all built their nests in my beard."

  There was an old man of Thermopylae,
  Who never did anything properly;
      But they said: "If you choose
      To boil eggs in your shoes,
  You cannot remain in Thermopylae."

  There was an Old Man who said, "Hush!
  I perceive a young bird in this bush!"
      When they said, "Is it small?"
      He replied, "Not at all;
  It is four times as big as the bush!"

  There was an Old Man who supposed
  That the street door was partially closed;
      But some very large Rats
      Ate his coats and his hats,
  While that futile Old Gentleman dozed.

  There was an Old Man of Leghorn,
  The smallest that ever was born;
      But quickly snapt up he
      Was once by a Puppy,
  Who devoured that Old Man of Leghorn.

  There was an Old Man of Kamschatka
  Who possessed a remarkably fat Cur;
      His gait and his waddle
      Were held as a model
  To all the fat dogs in Kamschatka.

                          _Edward Lear_.

     [_From books printed for the benefit of the New York

  There was a gay damsel of Lynn,
  Whose waist was so charmingly thin,
      The dressmaker needed
      A microscope--she did--
  To fit this slim person of Lynn.

  There was a young lady of Milton,
  Who was highly disgusted with Stilton;
      When offered a bite,
      She said, "Not a mite!"
  That suggestive young lady of Milton.

  There was a dear lady of Eden,
  Who on apples was quite fond of feedin';
      She gave one to Adam,
      Who said, "Thank you, Madam,"
  And then both skedaddled from Eden.

  There was a young lady of Wales,
  Who wore her back hair in two tails;
      And a hat on her head
      That was striped black and red,
  And studded with ten-penny nails.

  There was an old man who said, "Do
  Tell me how I'm to add two and two?
      I'm not very sure
      That it doesn't make four--
  But I fear that is almost too few."

  There once was a man who said, "How
  Shall I manage to carry my cow?
      For if I should ask it
      To get in my basket,
  'Twould make such a terrible row."

                          _Anonymous_.

  There once was an old man of Lyme
  Who married three wives at a time;
      When asked, "Why a third?"
      He replied, "One's absurd!
  And bigamy, sir, is a crime."

  There once was a person of Benin,
  Who wore clothes not fit to be seen in;
      When told that he shouldn't,
      He replied, "Gumscrumrudent!"
  A word of inscrutable meanin'.

  There once was a girl of New York
  Whose body was lighter than cork;
      She had to be fed
      For six weeks upon lead,
  Before she went out for a walk.

                          _Cosmo Monkhouse_.

  There was a young man who was bitten
  By twenty-two cats and a kitten;
      Sighed he, "It is clear
      My finish is near;
  No matter; I'll die like a Briton!"

  There was a princess of Bengal,
  Whose mouth was exceedingly small;
      Said she, "It would be
      More easy for me
  To do without eating at all!"

  There was an old stupid who wrote
  The verses above that we quote;
      His want of all sense
      Was something immense,
  Which made him a person of note.

                          _Walter Parke_.

VERS NONSENSIQUES

   Potsdam, les totaux absteneurs,
  Comme tant d'autres titotalleurs,
      Sont gloutons, omnivores,
      Nasorubicolores,
  Grands manchons, et terribles duffeurs.

  Un vieux due (le meilleur des poux)
  Demandait (en lui ttant le pouls)
       sa vielle duchesse
      (Qu'un vieux catarrhe oppresse):--
  "Et ton th, t'a-t-il t ta toux?"

  II naquit prs de Choisy-le-Roi;
  Le Latin lui causait de l'effroi;
      Et les Mathmatiques
      Lui donnaient des coliques,
  Et le Grec l'enrhmait.    Ce fut moi.

  Il etait un gendarme,  Nanteuil,
  Qui n'avait qu'une dent et qu'un oeil;
      Mais cet oeil solitaire
      Etait plein de mystre;
  Cette dent, d'importance et d'orgueil.

  "Cassez-vous, cassez-vous, cassez-vous,
  O mer, sur vos froids gris calloux!"
      Ainsi traduisit Laure
      Au profit d'Isadore
  (Bon jeune homme, at son futur epoux.)

  Un marin naufrage (de Doncastre)
  Pour prire, an milieu du dsastre
      Rptait  genoux
      Ces mots simples et doux:--
  "Scintillez, scintillez, petit astre!"

                          _George du Maurier_.

       *       *       *       *       *

  There was a young man of Cohoes,
  Wore tar on the end of his nose;
      When asked why he done it,
      He said for the fun it
  Afforded the men of Cohoes.

                          _Robert J. Burdette_.

       *       *       *       *       *

  I'd rather have habits than clothes,
  For that's where my intellect shows.
      And as for my hair,
      Do you think I should care
  To comb it at night with my toes?

  I'd rather have ears than a nose,
  I'd rather have fingers than toes,
      But as for my hair:
      I'm glad it's all there;
  I'll be awfully sad when it goes.

  I wish that my Room had a Floor;
  I don't so much care for a Door,
      But this walking around
      Without touching the ground
  Is getting to be quite a bore!

                          _Gelett Burgess_.

  H was an indigent Hen,
  Who picked up a corn now and then;
    She had but one leg
    On which she could peg,
  And behind her left ear was a wen.

                          _Bruce Porter_.

  Cleopatra, who thought they maligned her,
  Resolved to reform and be kinder;
    "If, when pettish," she said,
    "I should knock off your head,
  Won't you give me some gentle reminder?"

                          _Newton Mackintosh_.

  When that Seint George hadde sleyne ye draggon,
  He sate him down furninst a flaggon;
      And, wit ye well,
      Within a spell
  He had a bien plaisaunt jag on.

                          _Anonymous_.

  There was a young lady of Niger
  Who smiled as she rode on a Tiger;
      They came back from the ride
      With the lady inside,
  And the smile on the face of the Tiger.

                          _Anonymous_.

  There was a young maid who said, "Why
  Can't I look in my ear with my eye?
      If I give my mind to it,
      I'm sure I can do it,
  You never can tell till you try."

                          _Anonymous_.

INDEX OF TITLES

ABSTEMIA                        _Gelett Burgess_
Abstrosophy                     _Gelett Burgess_
Aestivation                     _O. W. Holmes_
Ahkond of Swat, The             _Edward Lear_
Alone
As with my Hat upon my Head     _Dr. Johnson_
Auld Wife, The                  _C. S. Calverley_
Aunt Eliza                      _Col. D. Streamer_
Autumn Leaves, The

BABY AND MARY
Ballade of the Nurserie         _John Twig_
Ballad of Bedlam
Ballad of High Endeavor, A
Ballad with an Ancient Refrain
Bison, The                      _Hilaire Relloc_
Bloated Biggaboon, The          _H. Cholmondeley-Pennell_
Blue Moonshine                  _Francis G. Stokes_
Boy, The                        _Eugene Field_
Bulbul, The                     _Owen Seaman_
Buz, quoth the Blue Fly         _Ben Jonson_

CENTIPEDE, A
Chimpanzee, The                 _Oliver Herford_
Chronicle, A
Classic Ode, A                  _Charles Battell Loomis_
Cobbe's Prophecies
Cock and the Bull, The          _C. S. Calverley_
Collusion between a Alegaiter and a Water-Snaik
                                _J. W. Morris_
Companions                      _C. S. Calverley_
Cossimbazar                     _Henry S. Leigh_
Cow, The                        _Oliver Herford_
Cruise of the "P. C.", The
Cumberbunce, The                _Paul West_

DARWINITY                       _Herman Merivale_
Dinkey-Bird, The                _Eugene Field_
Dirge of the Moolla of Kotal    _George T. Lanigan_

ELDERLY GENTLEMAN, THE          _George Canning_
Elegy on the Death of a Mad Dog _Oliver Goldsmith_
Elegy on Madam Blaize           _Oliver Goldsmith_

FAITHLESS NELLY GRAY            _Thomas Hood_
Famous Ballad of the Jubilee Cup, The
                                _A. T. Stiller-Couch_
Father William
Ferdinando and Elvira           _W. S. Gilbert_
Fin de Siecle                   _Newton Mackintosh_
Flamingo, The                   _Lewis Gaylord Clark_
Forcing a Way
Frangipanni
Frog, The                       _Hilaire Belloc_

GENERAL JOHN                    _W. S. Gilbert_
Gentle Alice Brown              _W. S. Gilbert_
Great Man, A                    _Oliver Goldsmith_
Guinea Pig, The

HEN, THE                        _Oliver Herford_
Her Dairy                       _Peter Newell_
Here is the Tale                _Anthony C. Deane_
Her Polka Dots                  _Peter Newell_
Higher Pantheism  in a Nutshell, The
                                _A. C. Swinburne_
Hippopotamus, The               _Oliver Herford_
Holiday Task, A                 _Gilbert Abbott a Becket_
Hunting of the Snark, The       _Lewis Carroll_
Hyder iddle diddle dell
Hymn to the Sunrise

IF
If Half the Road
If a Man who Turnips Cries      _Dr. Johnson_
I Love to Stand
Imitation of Wordsworth         _Catharine M. Fanshawe_
Impetuous Samuel                _Col. D. Streamer_
Incidents in the Life of my Uncle Arly
                                _Edward Lear_
Indifference
In Immemorian                   _Cuthbert Bede_
In the Dumps
In the Gloaming                 _James C. Bayles_
In the Night
Invisible Bridge, The           _Gelett Burgess_

JABBERWOCKY                     _Lewis Carroll_
John Jones                      _A. C. Swinburne_
Jumblies, The                   _Edward Lear_

KEN YE AUGHT O' CAPTAIN GROSE   _Robert Burns_
Kindness to Animals             _J. Ashby-Sterry_
King Arthur

LAYE OF YE WOODPECKORE, YE      _Henry A. Beers_
Lazy Roof, The                  _Gelett Burgess_
Like to the Thundering Tone     _Bishop Corbet_
LIMERICKS:
  Cleopatra, who thought they maligned her
                                _Newton Mackintosh_
  H was an indigent H           _Bruce Porter_
  I'd rather have habits than clothes
                                _Gelett Burgess_
  I wish that my room had a door
                                _Gelett Burgess_
  There once was a girl of New York
                                _Cosmo Monkhouse_
  There once was a man who said "How"
  There once was an old man of Lyme
                                _Cosmo Monkhouse_
  There once was a person of Benin
                                _Cosmo Monkhouse_
  There was a dear lady  of Eden
  There was a gay damsel of Lynn
  There was an old man in a tree
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was an Old Man of Kamschatka
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was an Old Man of Leghorn
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was an old man of St. Bees
                                _W. S. Gilbert_
  There was an old  man of Thermopylae
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was an old man who said "Do"
  There was an Old Man who said "Hush"
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was an Old Man who supposed
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was an old person of Ware
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was an old person of Wick
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was an old person of Woking
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was an old stupid who wrote
                                _Walter Parke_
  There was once a man with a beard
                                _Edward Lear_
  There was a princess of Bengal
                                _Walter Parke_
  There was a small boy of Quebec
                                _Rudyard Kipling_
  There was a young lady of Milton
  There was a young lady of Niger
  There was a young lady of Wales
  There was a young maid who said "Why"
  There was a young man at St. Kitts
  There was a young man of Cohoes
                                _Robert J. Burdette_
  There was a young man who was bitten
                                _Walter Parke_
  Vers Nonsensiques             _George du Maurier_
  When that Seint George hadde sleyne ye dragon
Lines by a Fond Lover
Lines by a Medium
Lines by a Person of Quality    _Alexander Pope_
Lines to Miss Florence Huntingdon
Lines to a Young Lady           _Edward Lear_
Little Billee                   _W.M. Thackeray_
Little Peach, The
Little Willie
Lobster wooed a Lady Crab, A
Lovers and a Reflection         _C.S. Calverley_
Love Song by a Lunatic
Lugubrious Whing-Whang, The     _James W. Riley_
Lunar Stanzas                   _H.C. Knight_

MALUM OPUS                      _J. Appleton Morgan_
Man in the Moon, The            _James W. Riley_
Martin Luther at Potsdam        _Barry Pain_
Martin to his Man
Mary Ames
Mary Jane
Master and Man
Mayor of Scuttleton, The        _Mary Mapes Dodge_
Melancholia
Metaphysics                     _Oliver Herford_
Minnie and Winnie               _Lord Tennyson_
Misfortunes                     _Col. D. Streamer_
Mr. Finney's Turnip
Modern Hiawatha, The
Monkey's Glue, The              _Goldwin Goldsmith_
Monkey's Wedding The
Monsieur McGint
Moon is up, The
Moorlands of the Not
Mors Iabrochii
Muddled Metaphors               _Tom Hood, Jr_.
My Dream
My Feet                         _Gelett Burgess_
My Home
My Recollectest Thoughts        _Charles E. Carryl_

Nephelidia                      _A. C. Swinburne_
Noble Tuckman, The              _Jean Ingelow_
Nonsense
Nonsense                        _Thomas Moore_
Nonsense Verses                 _Charles Lamb_
Not I                           _R.L. Stevenson_
Nyum-Nyum, The

Ocean Wanderer, The
Odd to a Krokis
Ode to the Human Heart          _Laman Blanchard_
Of Baiting the Lion             _Owen Seaman_
Oh, my Geraldine                _F.C. Burnand_
Oh, Weary Mother                _Barry Pain_
On the Oxford Carrier           _John Milton_
On the Road                     _Tudor Jenks_
Owl and the Pussy-Cat, The      _Edward Lear_

PANTHER, THE
Parson Gray                     _Oliver Goldsmith_
Parterre, The                   _E. H. Palmer_
Personified Sentimental, The    _Bret Harte_
Pessimist, The                  _Ben King_
Platypus, The                   _Oliver Herford_
Pobble who has no Toes, The     _Edward Lear_
Poor Brother
Poor Dear Grandpapa             _D'Arcy W. Thompson_
Psycholophon                    _Gelett Burgess_
Puer ex Jersey
Purple Cow, The                 _Gelett Burgess_
Python, The                     _Hilaire Belloc_

QUATRAIN

RIDDLE, A
Rollicking Mastodon, The        _Arthur Macy_
Russian and Turk

SAGE COUNSEL                    _A. T. Quiller-Couch_
Sailor's Yarn, A                _James Jeffrey Roche_
Sea, The
Sea-Serpent, The                _Planch_
She's All my Fancy Painted Him  _Lewis Carroll_
She Went into the Garden        _S. Foote_
Shipwreck, The                  _E. H. Palmer_
Silver Question, The            _Oliver Herford_
Sing for the Garish Eye         _W. S. Gilbert _
Singular Sangfroid of Baby Bunting, The  _Guy W. Carryl_
Some Geese                      _Oliver Herford_
Some Verses to Snaix
Song of Impossibilities         _William M. Praed_
Song of the Screw, The
Song on King William III
Sonnet Found in a Deserted Madhouse
Sorrows of Werther, The         _W. M. Thackeray_
Spirk Troll-Derisive            _James W. Riley_
Story of Cruel Psamtek, The
Story of Prince Agib, The       _W. S. Gilbert_
Story of Pyramid Thothmes
Story of the Wild Huntsman      _Heinrich Hoffman_
Sun, The                        _J. Davis_
Sunbeam, The
Superior Nonsense Verses
Susan
Swiss Air                       _Bret Harte_
Sylvie and Bruno                _Lewis Carroll_

Tender-Heartedness              _Col. D. Streamer_
Tender Infant, The              _Dr. Johnson_
There was a Frog
There was a Little Girl         _H. W. Longfellow_
There was a Monkey
Three Acres of Land
Three Children
Three Jovial Huntsmen
Threnody                        _George T. Lanigan_
Thy Heart
Timid Hortense                  _Peter Newell_
Timon of Archimedes             _Charles Battell Loomis_
'Tis Midnight and the Setting Sun
'Tis Sweet to Roam
To Marie
To Mollidusta                   _Planch_
Transcendentalism
Trust in Women
Turvey Top
Tweedle-dum and Tweedle-dee

Uffia                           _Harriet R. White_
Uncle Simon and Uncle Jim       _Artemui Ward_
Unsuspected Fact, An            _Edward Cannon_
Uprising See the Fitful Lark

Villon's Straight Tip           _W. E. Henley_

Walloping Window-Blind, The     _Charles E. Carryl_
Walrus and the Carpenter, The   _Lewis Carroll_
Ways and Means                  _Lewis Carroll_
Whango Tree, The
What the Prince of I Dreamt     _H. Cholmondeley-Pennell_
When Moonlike ore the Hazure Seas
                                _W.M. Thackeray_
Where Avalanches Wail
Wild Flowers                    _Peter Newell_
Wonderful Old Man, The
Wreck of the "Julie Plante"     _W.H. Drummond_

Yak, The                        _Hilaire Belloc_
Yonghy-Bonghy-BO, The           _Edward Lear_

INDEX OF AUTHORS

 BECKET, GILBERT ABBOTT
   A Holiday Task
ASHBY-STERRY, J.
  Kindness to Animals

BAYLES, JAMES C.
  In the Gloaming
BEDE,  CUTHBERT
  In Immemoriam
BEERS, HENRY A.
  Ye Laye of ye Woodpeckore
BELLOC, HILAIRE
  The Bison
  The Frog
  The Python
  The Yak
BLANCHARD, LAMAN
  Ode to the Human Heart
BURDETTE, ROBERT J.
  Limerick
BURGESS, GELETT
  Abstemia
  Abstrosophy
  The Invisible Bridge
  The Lazy Roof
  Limericks
  My Feet
  Psycholophon
  The Purple Cow
BURNAND, F. C.
  Oh, my Geraldine
BURNS, ROBERT
  Ken ye Aught o' Captain Grose?

CALVERLEY, CHARLES S.
  The Auld Wife
  The Cock and the Bull
  Companions
  Lovers and a Reflection
CANNING, GEORGE
  The Elderly Gentleman
CANNON, EDWARD
  An Unsuspected Fact
CARROLL, LEWIS
  The Hunting of the Snark
  Jabberwocky
  She's All my Fancy Painted Him
  Sylvie and Bruno
  The Walrus and the Carpenter
  Ways and Means
CARRYL, CHARLES E.
  My Recollectest Thoughts
  The Walloping Window-Blind
CARRYL, GUY WETMORE
  The Singular Sangfroid of Baby Bunting
CHOLMONDELEY-PENNELL, H.
  The Bloated Biggaboon
  What the Prince of I Dreamt
CLARK, LEWIS GAYLORD
  The Flamingo
CORBET, BISHOP
  Like to the Thundering Tone

DAVIS, J.
  The Sun
DEANE, ANTHONY C.
  Here is the Tale
DODGE, MARY MAPES
  The Mayor of Scuttleton
DRUMMOND, W.H.
  Wreck of the "Julie Plante," The
DU MAURIER, GEORGE
  Vers Nonsensiques

FANSHAWE, CATHARINE M.
  Imitation of Wordsworth
FIELD, EUGENE
  The Boy
  The Dinkey Bird
FOOTE, S.
  Farrago of Nonsense

GILBERT, W.S.
  Ferdinando and Elvira
  General John
  Gentle Alice Brown
  Sing for the Garish Eye
  The Story of Prince Agib
  There was an Old Man of St. Bees
GOLDSMITH, GOLDWIN
  The Monkey's Glue
GOLDSMITH, OLIVER
  Elegy on the Death of a Mad Dog
  Elegy on Madam Blaize
  A Great Man
  Parson Gray

HARTE, BRET
  The Personified Sentimental
  Swiss Air
HENLEY, W.E.
  Villon's Straight Tip
HERFORD, OLIVER.
  The Chimpanzee
  The Cow
  The Hen
  The Hippopotamus
  Metaphysics
  The Platypus
  The Silver Question
  Some Geese
HOFFMAN, HEINRICH
  The Story of the Wild Huntsman
HOLMES, OLIVER WENDELL
  stivation
HOOD, THOMAS
  Faithless Nelly Gray
HOOD, THOMAS, JR.
  Muddled Metaphors

INGELOW, JEAN
  The Noble Tuckman

JENKS, TUDOR
  On the Road
JOHNSON, SAMUEL
  As with my Hat
  If a Man who Turnips Cries
  The Tender Infant
JONSON, BEN
  Buz, quoth the Blue Fly

KING, BEN
  The Pessimist
KIPLING, RUDYARD
  Limerick
KNIGHT, HENRY C.
  Lunar Stanzas

LAMB, CHARLES
  Nonsense Verses
LANIGAN, GEORGE T.
  Dirge of the Moolla of Kotal
  A Threnody
LEAR, EDWARD
  The Ahkond of Swat
  Incidents in the Life of my Uncle Arly
  The Jumblies
  Limericks
  Lines to a Young Lady
  The Owl and the Pussy-Cat
  The Pobble
  There was an Old Man in a Tree
  The Yonghy-Bonghy-BO
LEIGH, HENRY S.
  Cossimbazar
LONGFELLOW, H.W.
  There was a Little Girl
LOOMIS, CHARLES BATTELL
  A Classic Ode
  Timon of Archimedes

MACKINTOSH,  NEWTON
  Fin de Sicle
  Limerick
MACY, ARTHUR
  The Rollicking Mastodon
MERIVALE, HERMAN
  Darwinity
MILTON, JOHN
  On the Oxford Carrier
MONKHOUSE, COSMO
  Limericks
MOORE, THOMAS
  Nonsense
MORGAN, JAMES APPLETON
  Malum Opus
MORRIS, J. W.
  Collusion between a Alegaiter and a Water-Snaik

NEWELL, PETER
  Her Dairy
  Her Polka Dots
  Timid Hortense
  Wild Flowers

PAIN, BARRY
  Martin Luther at Potsdam
  Oh, Weary Mother
PALMER, E. H.
  The Parterre
  The Shipwreck
PARKE, WALTER
  Limericks
PLANCH
  The Sea-Serpent
  To Mollidusta
POPE, ALEXANDER
  Lines by a Person of Quality
PORTER, BRUCE
  Limerick
PRAED, W. M.
  Song of Impossibilities

QUILLER-COUCH, A. T.
  The Famous Ballad of the Jubilee Cup
  Sage Counsel

RILEY, JAMES W.
  The Lugubrious Whing-Whang
  The Man in the Moon
  Spirk Troll-Derisive
ROCHE, JAMES JEFFREY
  A Sailor's Yarn

SEAMAN, OWEN
  The Bulbul
  Of Baiting the Lion
STEVENSON, R. L.
  Not I
STOKES, FRANCIS G.
  Blue Moonshine
STREAMER, COL. D.
  Aunt Eliza
  Impetuous Samuel
STREAMER, COL. D.--_Continued_
  Misfortunes
  Tender-Heartedness
SWINBURNE, A.  C.
  The Higher Pantheism
  John Jones
  Nephelidia

TENNYSON, LORD
  Minnie and Winnie
THACKERAY, W.M.
  Little Billee
  The Sorrows of Werther
  When Moonlike ore the Hazure Seas
THOMPSON, D'ARCY W.
  Poor Dear Grandpapa
TWIG, JOHN
  Ballade of the Nurserie

WARD, ARTEMUS
  Uncle Simon and Uncle Jim
WEST, PAUL
  The Cumberbunce
WHITE, HARRIET R.
  UffiaTHE JINGLE BOOK

       *       *       *       *       *

 The Tutor

  A tutor who tooted the flute
  Tried to teach two young tooters to toot.
    Said the two to the tutor,
    "Is it harder to toot, or
  To tutor two tooters to toot?"

       *       *       *       *       *

                THE JINGLE BOOK

                      BY
                 CAROLYN WELLS

                  Pictured by
                OLIVER HERFORD

                   New York
             THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
          LONDON: MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.

             _All rights reserved_

       *       *       *       *       *

                COPYRIGHT, 1899,
           BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

     Set up and electrotyped October, 1899.
     Reprinted November, 1899; June, 1901.

       *       *       *       *       *

                To Hilda's Child

       *       *       *       *       *

                    CONTENTS

     THE TUTOR             _Frontispiece_
                                 PAGE

       *       *       *       *       *

                The Jingle Book

       *       *       *       *       *

 A Serious Question

 A kitten went a-walking
   One morning in July,
 And idly fell a-talking
   With a great big butterfly.

 The kitten's tone was airy,
   The butterfly would scoff;
 When there came along a fairy
   Who whisked his wings right off.

 And then--for it is written
   Fairies can do such things--
 Upon the startled kitten
   She stuck the yellow wings.

 The kitten felt a quiver,
   She rose into the air,
 Then flew down to the river
   To view her image there.

 With fear her heart was smitten,
   And she began to cry,
 "Am I a butter-kitten?
   Or just a kitten-fly?"

 Two Old Kings

 Oh! the King of Kanoodledum
 And the King of Kanoodledee,
   They went to sea
   In a jigamaree--
 A full-rigged jigamaree.

 And one king couldn't steer,
 And the other, no more could he;
   So they both upset
   And they both got wet,
 As wet as wet could be.

 And one king couldn't swim
 And the other, he couldn't, too;
   So they had to float,
   While their empty boat
 Danced away o'er the sea so blue.

 Then the King of Kanoodledum
 He turned a trifle pale,
   And so did he
   Of Kanoodledee,
 But they saw a passing sail!

 And one king screamed like fun
 And the other king screeched like mad,
   And a boat was lowered
   And took them aboard;
 And, my! but those kings were glad!

 A Day Dream

 Polly's patchwork--oh, dear me!--
 Truly is a sight to see.
 Rumpled, crumpled, soiled, and frayed--
 Will the quilt be ever made?
 See the stitches yawning wide--
 Can it be that Polly _tried_?

 Some are right and some are wrong,
 Some too short and some too long,
 Some too loose and some too tight;
 Grimy smudges on the white,
 And a tiny spot of red,
 Where poor Polly's finger bled.
 Strange such pretty, dainty blocks--
 Bits of Polly's summer frocks--
 Should have proved so hard to sew,
 And the cause of so much woe!

 One day it was _very_ hot,
 And the thread got in a knot,
 Drew the seam up in a heap--
 Polly calmly fell asleep.
 Then she had a lovely dream;
 Straight and even was the seam,
 Pure and spotless was the white;
 All the blocks were finished quite--
 Each joined to another one.
 Lo, behold! the quilt was done,--
 Lined and quilted,--and it seemed
 To cover Polly as she dreamed!

 Our Club

 We're going to have the mostest fun!
   It's going to be a club;
 And no one can belong to it
   But Dot and me and Bub.

 We thought we'd have a Reading Club,
   But couldn't 'cause, you see,
 Not one of us knows how to read--
   Not Dot nor Bub nor me.

 And then we said a Sewing Club,
   But thought we'd better not;
 'Cause none of us knows how to sew--
   Not me nor Bub nor Dot.

 And so it's just a Playing Club,
   We play till time for tea;
 And, oh, we have the bestest times!
   Just Dot and Bub and me.

 Puzzled

 There lived in ancient Scribbletown a wise old writer-man,
 Whose name was Homer Cicero Demosthenes McCann.
 He'd written treatises and themes till, "For a change," he said,
 "I think I'll write a children's book before I go to bed."

 He pulled down all his musty tomes in Latin and in Greek;
 Consulted cyclopaedias and manuscripts antique,
 Essays in Anthropology, studies in counterpoise--
 "For these," he said, "are useful lore for little girls and boys."

 He scribbled hard, and scribbled fast, he burned the midnight oil,
 And when he reached "The End" he felt rewarded for his toil;
 He said, "This charming Children's Book is greatly to my credit."
 And now he's sorely puzzled that no child has ever read it.

 An Intercepted Valentine

 Little Bo-Peep, will you be mine?
 I want you for my Valentine.
 You are my choice of all the girls,
 With your blushing cheeks and your fluttering curls,
 With your ribbons gay and your kirtle neat,
 None other is so fair and sweet.
 Little Bo-Peep, let's run away,
 And marry each other on Midsummer Day;
 And ever to you I'll be fond and true,

            Your faithful Valentine,
                    LITTLE BOY BLUE.

 A Long-Felt Want

 One day wee Willie and his dog
   Sprawled on the nursery floor.
 He had a florist's catalogue,
   And turned the pages o'er,

 Till all at once he gave a spring,
   "Hurrah!" he cried with joy;
 "Mamma, here's just the very thing
   To give your little boy!

 "For when we fellows go to school,
   We lose our things, you know;
 And in that little vestibule
   They do get mixed up so.

 "And as you often say you can't
   Take care of 'em for me,
 Why don't you buy a _rubber plant_,
   And an _umbrella tree_?"

 The Musical Carp

 There once was a corpulent carp
 Who wanted to play on a harp,
     But to his chagrin
     So short was his fin
 That he couldn't reach up to C sharp.

 The Intelligent Hen

 'Twas long ago,--a year or so,--
   In a barnyard by the sea,
 That an old hen lived whom you may know
   By the name of Fiddle-de-dee.
 She scratched around in the sand all day,
   For a lively old hen was she.

 And then do you know, it happened this way
   In that barnyard by the sea;
 A great wise owl came down one day,
   And hooted at Fiddle-de-dee,
   Just hooted at Fiddle-de-dee.
 And he cried, "Hi! Hi! old hen, I say!
   You're provincial, it seems to me!"

 "Why, what do you mean?" cried the old red hen,
   As mad as hops was she.
 "Oh, I've been 'round among great men,
   In the world where the great men be.
 And none of them scratch with their claws like you,
   They write with a quill like me."

 Now very few people could get ahead
   Of that old hen, Fiddle-de-dee.
 She went and hunted the posy-bed,
   And returned in triumphant glee.
 And ever since then, that little red hen,
 She writes with a jonquil pen, quil pen,
   She writes with a jonquil pen.

 The Happy Hyena

 There once was a happy Hyena
 Who played on an old concertina.
     He dressed very well,
     And in his lapel
 He carelessly stuck a verbena.

 A Great Lady

 This is the Queen of Nonsense Land,
 She wears her bonnet on her hand;
 She carpets her ceilings and frescos her floors,
 She eats on her windows and sleeps on her doors.
 Oh, ho! Oh, ho! to think there could be
 A lady so silly-down-dilly as she!

 She goes for a walk on an ocean wave,
 She fishes for cats in a coral cave;
 She drinks from an empty glass of milk,
 And lines her potato trees with silk.
 I'm sure that fornever and never was seen
 So foolish a thing as the Nonsense Queen!

 She ordered a wig for a blue bottle fly,
 And she wrote a note to a pumpkin pie;
 She makes all the oysters wear emerald rings,
 And does dozens of other nonsensible things.
 Oh! the scatterbrained, shatterbrained lady so grand,
 Her Royal Skyhighness of Nonsense Land!

 Opulent Ollie

 One Saturday opulent Ollie
 Thought he'd go for a ride on the trolley;
   But his pennies were few,--
   He only had two,--
 So he went and made mud-pies with Polly.

 The Two Bears

 Prince Curlilocks remarked one day
   To Princess Dimplecheek,
 "I haven't had a real good play
   For more than 'most a week."

 Said Princess Dimplecheek, "My dear,
   Your majesty forgets--
 This morning we played grenadier
   With grandpa's epaulets.

 "And yesterday we sailed to Spain--
   We both were pirates bold,
 And braved the wild and raging main
   To seek for hidden gold."

 "True," said the prince; "I mind me well--
   Right hardily we fought,
 And stormed a massive citadel
   To gain the prize we sought.

 "But if your ladyship agrees,
   Methinks we'll go upstairs
 And build a waste of arctic seas,
   And we'll be polar bears."

 "Yes, if you'll promise not to bite,"
   Fair Dimplecheek replied,
 Already half-way up the flight,
   His highness by her side.

 "Princess, on that far window-seat,
   Go, sit thee down and wait,
 While I ask nursie for a sheet,
   Or maybe six or eight."

 A pile of sheets his highness brought.
   "Dear princess, pray take these;
 Although our path with danger's fraught,
   We'll reach the polar seas."

 Two furry rugs his lordship bore,
   Two pairs of mittens white;
 He threw them on the nursery floor
   And shouted with delight.

 He spread those sheets--the funny boy--
   O'er table, floor, and chair.
 "Princess," said he, "don't you enjoy
   This frosty, bracing air?

 "These snowy sheets are fields of ice,
   This is an iceberg grim."
 "Yes, dear, I think it's very nice,"
   She said, and smiled at him.

 And then they donned the rugs of fur,
   The mittens, too, they wore;
 And Curlilocks remarked to her,
   "Now you must roar and roar."

 Dimplecheek looked out from the cowl
   Formed by her furry rug.
 "I'm 'fraid of bears that only growl--
   I like the kind that hug."

 The Very Merry Voyage of the Macaroni Man

 This figure here before you is a Macaroni Man,
 Who is built, as you may notice, on a most ingenious plan.
 His skeleton, I beg to state, is made of hairpins three,
 Which are bent and curved and twisted to a marvellous degree.
 His coat-sleeves and his trouser-legs, his head and eke his waist
 Are made of superfine imported macaroni paste.
 And if you care to listen, you may hear the thrilling tale
 Of the merry Macaroni Man's extraordinary sail.
 One sunny day he started for a voyage in his yacht,
 His anxious mother called to him, and said, "You'd better not!
 Although the sun is shining bright, I fear that it may rain;
 And don't you think, my darling boy, you'd better take the train?"
 "Oh, no," said he, "no clouds I see,--the sky is blue and clear,
 I will return in time for tea--good-by, my mother  dear."

 Full merrily he started off, the day was fine and fair,
 And to his great delight he found no dampness in the air.
 You know if he gets wet, a Macaroni Man is spoiled,
 And if he stands too near the steam, of course he may get boiled.
 But our hero used precautions,--carefully he shunned the spray,--
 And when the steam blew toward him, he just steered the other way.
 Now, as the breeze was from the land, his course lay out to sea;
 He sailed so far that he felt sure he would be late for tea.
 He sailed, and sailed, and sailed, and sailed,--
               he feared the dew would fall--
 He tried to turn,--but oh, that steam! it would not do at all!

 A single puff blew toward him, and it nearly cooked his face!
 The mournful Macaroni Man felt sadly out of place.
 But a happy thought occurred to him, "Ha, ha,--ho, ho!" said he,--
 "I'll just sail on around the world,--and then, it seems to me,
 I'll reach my home (according to a careful estimate)
 In time for tea, although I'll be perhaps a trifle late."
 Then merrily his gallant ship sped o'er the bounding main,
 Quickly he crossed the ocean wide, he flew by France and Spain;
 Covered the Mediterranean, spanned the Suez Canal,--
 "I'll reach my home to-night," he thought, "oh, yes, I'm sure I shall."
 He skimmed the Red Sea like a bird,--the Indian Ocean crossed
 (But once, in Oceanica, he feared that he was lost).

 He passed Australia on the fly,--cut over Capricorn,
 And as the sunset gun he heard, he swung around Cape Horn.
 Still at full speed, he sailed due north, he rounded Cape St. Roque,
 Crossed the equator, and found out the Gulf Stream was no joke.
 He coasted by the seaboard States. Hurrah! all danger past,
 Quickly he sailed the last few miles and reached his home at last;
 His mother welcomed him, and said, "I'm glad there was no shower;
 But hurry in, my bonny boy, I've waited tea an hour."

 The 4.04 Train

 "There's a train at 4.04," said Miss Jenny;
 "Four tickets I'll take. Have you any?"
     Said the man at the door:
     "Not four for 4.04,
 For four for 4.04 is too many."

 A Valuable Gift

 Old Father Time, one day
 In his study, so they say,
   Was indulging in a surreptitious nap,
 When from his drowsy dreams
 He was wakened, as it seems,
   By a timid but persistent little rap.

 He yawned and rubbed his eyes
 In indolent surprise,
   Then slowly he arose from where he sat;
 He opened wide his door,
 And nearly tumbled o'er
   The figure that stood waiting on the mat.

 A tiny little dog,
 With excitement all agog,
   And angry eyes that seemed to flash and glower.
 His manner was polite,
 But he said, "I claim my right!
   And I've called, sir, to demand of you my hour."

 "Your what?" the old man said,
 As he shook his puzzled head;
   And the pertinacious puppy spoke with force:
 "Well, sir, they often say,
 'Every dog must have his day,'
   So a puppy ought to have an hour, of course!"

 The old man shook with glee,
 But he said obligingly,
   "The dog days are all gone, I grieve to say;
 But since you've come so far,
 And so mannerly you are,
   I'll give you just an hour--to get away."

 The Grandiloquent Goat

 A very grandiloquent Goat
 Sat down to a gay table d'hote;
   He ate all the corks,
   The knives and the forks,
 Remarking: "On these things I dote."

 Then, before his repast he began,
 While pausing the menu to scan,
   He said: "Corn, if you please,
   And tomatoes and pease,
 I'd like to have served in the can."

 How the Cat was Belled

 A fable told by La Fontaine,
   Two centuries or more ago,
 Describes some rats who would arraign
   A cat, their direst foe,
 Who killed so many rats
   And caused the deepest woe,
 This Catiline of cats.

 The poor rats were at their wits' end
 Their homes and families to defend;
   And as a last resort
   They took the case to court.

 It seems they called a caucus wise
 Of rats of every age and size,
   And then their dean,
   With sapient mien,
 A very Solon of a rat,
 Said it was best to bell the cat.

 The quaint old tale goes on to tell
 How this plan would have worked quite well,
   But, somehow, flaws
   Appeared, because
 No one would hang the bell.

 Though there the ancient fable ends,
 Later report the tale extends,
   No longer is the truth withheld;
     Developments appear,
     And so you have it here.
       For the first time
       Set down in rhyme
   Just how that cat was belled.

 The council, as 'twas getting late,
 Was just about to separate,
   When suddenly a rat arose
   Who said he could a plan propose
     Which would, he thought, succeed
     And meet their urgent need.

 Now as this rat was very small,
 And had no dignity at all,
   Although his plan was well advised,
   We really need not be surprised
 That all the rats of riper years
 Expressed the gravest doubts and fears;
     Till suddenly
     He said, said he,
 "If you will leave it all to me,
       I will avow
       Three days from now
 That you shall all be free."
 The solemn council then adjourned.
 Each rat to home and fireside turned;
   But each shook his wise head
   And to his neighbor said:
 "It is a dangerous job, in truth,
 Though it seems naught to headstrong youth."

 Now young Sir Rat we next behold,
 With manner brave and visage bold,
     Go marching down
     To London town,
 Where wondrous things are sold.
     We see him stop
     At a large shop,
 And with the bland clerk's courteous aid
 This was the purchase that he made:
 A bicycle of finest make,
 With modern gear and patent brake,
 Pedometer, pneumatic tire,
 And spokes that looked like silver wire,
     A lantern bright
     To shine at night,
 Enamel finish, nickel plate,
 And all improvements up to date.
 Said sly Sir Rat: "It suits me well,
 Especially that sweet-toned _bell_."

 The shades of night were falling fast
 When Sir Rat turned toward home at last.
 The neighbors watched him as he passed
 And said: "What is that queer-shaped thing?
 Surely that can't be made to ring."
   Sir Rat went on, nor stayed
   To hear the jests they made;
 And just outside the old cat's gate
 He stopped and boldly braved his fate,
   For if that cat
   Should smell a rat
 How quickly he'd come out and catch him,
 And with what gusto he'd despatch him!
 Sir Rat, against the picket-fence
 Leaned the machine, then hurried hence,
   And hid himself with glee,
   And waited breathlessly
     To see what that
     Cantankerous cat
 Would say, when in the twilight dim
 He saw that brightly shining rim.

   Sir Rat, though hidden quite,
   And safely out of sight,
 Had scarcely time to wink his eye,
 When Mr. Cat came sauntering by.

     "Ha! Ha!" said he,
     "What's this I see,
 A bicycle! and just my size!
 Well, this, indeed, is a surprise!
     I'll confiscate
     This treasure great;
 How quickly I'll fly o'er the ground
 When I pursue my hunting round!"

 He mounted it with eager haste,
 It suited well his sporting taste;
   He guided it at will,
   And used the brake with skill,
 He grasped the handle-bars, and then--
 You see it was his custom when
 He did a thing, to do it well--
 Of course he used the clear-toned bell!

 Victory now! the deed is done!
 No longer at the set of sun
 The rats fly shrieking to their nests,
 They saunter round with merry jests
   And ne'er a thought of fear,
     Knowing full well
     They'll hear the bell
   When Mr. Cat draws near.

 And young Sir Rat who did the deed,
 Whose cleverness relieved their need,
   His wondrous enterprise
   Was lauded to the skies.
 And everywhere his name
 Was hailed with shouts of fame.

 In difficulties, oft we see
 Modern improvements frequently
 Will prove a happy remedy.

 The Rhyme of Triangular Tommy

 Triangular Tommy, one morning in May,
 Went out for a walk on the public highway.
     Just here I will say,
     'Twas a bright sunny day,
 And the sky it was blue, and the grass it was green,
 The same sky and grass that you've all of you seen;
 And the birds in the trees sang their usual song,
 And Triangular Tommy went trudging along.

     But I can tell you
     He cared naught for the view.
 He did just what small boys of his age always do:
     He shouted out "Scat!"
     At a wandering cat,
 And he picked a big daisy to stick in his hat;
     The clovers he topped,
     And the toadstools he cropped,
 And sometimes he scuffled and sometimes he hopped.

 He took an old stick and poked at a worm,
 And merrily chuckled to see the thing squirm;
 When he chanced to look up, and in gorgeous array
 Triangular Tilly was coming his way.
 Triangular Tom straightened up in a jiff,
 And put on his best manner--exceedingly stiff;
 And as far as his angular shape would allow
 Triangular Tom made a beautiful bow.

 Triangular Tilly went smilingly by,
 With a glance that was friendly, but just a bit shy.
 And Tom so admired her that after she passed,
 A backward look over his shoulder he cast.
 And he said, "Though I think many girls are but silly,
 I really admire that Triangular Tilly."

 But soon all such thoughts were put out of his head,
 For who should come by but Triangular Ted,
 The very boy Tom had been wishing to see!
 "Hello!" said Triangular Tommy, said he.
 "Hello!" said Triangular Ted, and away
 Those two children scooted to frolic and play.
     And they had, on the green,
     Where 'twas all dry and clean,
 The best game of leap-frog that ever was seen.
 Triangular Tom beat down this way, you know,
 And Triangular Ted stood beside him, just so,
     When one, two, three--go!
     With  the  greatest gusto,
 Ted flew over Tom in a manner not slow.

 They played hide-and-seek, they played marbles and tag,
 They played they were soldiers, and each waved a flag;
     Till at last they confessed,
     They wanted to rest;
 So they sat down and chatted with laughter and jest;

 When Schoolmaster Jones they suddenly spied,
 Come clumping along with his pedagogue stride,
 As usual, with manner quite preoccupied;
     With his hat on one side,
     And his shoe-lace untied--
 A surly old fellow, it can't be denied;
     And each wicked boy
     Thought that he would enjoy
 An occasion the thoughtful old man to annoy,
 And all of his wise calculations destroy.
     So they thought they'd employ
     A means known to each boy.
 And across the wide pavement they fastened a twine
 Exceedingly strong but exceedingly fine;
 And Triangular Tommy laughed out in his glee,
 To think how upset the old master would be!

 Although very wicked, their mischievous scheme
 Was a perfect success; and with a loud scream,
     A horrible clash,
     A thump and a smash,
 Old Schoolmaster Jones came down with a crash.
 His hat rolled away, and his spectacles broke,
 And those dreadful boys thought it a howling good joke.
 And they just doubled up in immoderate glee,
 Saying, "Look at the Schoolmaster!
     Tee-hee! tee-hee!"

     Tom gave a guffaw,
     And Ted roared a "haw-haw";
 But soon their diversion was turned into awe,
 For old Schoolmaster Jones was angry, they saw.

     Triangular Ted
     Turned swiftly and fled,
 And far down the street like a reindeer he sped,
 Leaving Tommy to face the old gentleman's rage,
 Who quickly jumped up,--he was brisk for his age,--
 And with just indignation portrayed on his face,
 To Triangular Tommy he quickly gave chase.

     And hearing his squeals
     And his frantic appeals,
 Triangular Tommy fast took to his heels.
 Now Tommy was agile and Tommy was spry;
 He whizzed through the air--he just seemed to fly;
 He rushed madly on, until, dreadful to say!
 He came where the railroad was just in his way--
     And alas! and alack!
     He tripped on the track
 And then with a terrible, sudden ker-thwack!
 Triangular Tommy sprawled flat on his back--
 And the train came along with a crash, and a crack,
 A din, and a clatter, a clang, and a clack,
 A toot, and a boom, and a roar, and a hiss,
 And chopped him up all into pieces like this--
 If _you_ cut out papers just like them, why, then,
 If you try, you can put him together again.

 A Modern Invention

 Old Santa Claus is up-to-date,
   And hereafter, rumors say,
 He'll come with his pack of glittering toys,
 And visit the homes of girls and boys,
   In a new reindeerless sleigh.

 An April Joke

 Oh, it was a merry, gladsome day,
 When the April Fool met the Queen of May;
 She had roguish eyes and golden hair,
 And they were a mischief-making pair.
 They planned the funniest kind of a joke
 On the poor, long-suffering mortal folk;
 And a few mysterious words he said,
 His fool's cap close to her flower-crowned head.
 Then he laughed till he made his cap-bells ring,
 At the thought of the topsy-turvy Spring.
 "'Tis a fair exchange," he said, with a wink--
 "It is!" she said, and what do you think?
 The flowers that should bloom in the month of May
 Every one of them came on an April day!
 And they looked for April showers in vain,
 But all through May it did nothing but rain!

 An Alice Alphabet

 A is for Alice a-dressing the Queen.

 B is for Borogoves, mimsy and lean.

 C is the Cheshire Cat, wearing a grin.

 D is the Duchess who had a sharp chin.

 E is the Eaglet who barred out long words.

 F, the Flamingo, the queerest of birds.

 G is the Gryphon, loquacious and gay.

 H, Humpty Dumpty in gorgeous array.

 I is for Insects with curious names.

 J is the Jabberwock burbling with flames.

 K is the King who was whizzed through the air.

 L is the Lobster who sugared his hair.

 M, the Mock Turtle, whose tears freely flowed.

 N is for Nobody seen on the road.

 O is for Oysters who trotted so quick.

 P is the Puppy who played with a stick.

 Q is the Queen who ran very fast.

 R is the Rabbit who blew a great blast.

 S is the Sheep, on her knitting intent.

 T, Tweedledum, with his noisy lament.

 U is the Unicorn, valiant in feud.

 V is the Violet, saucy and rude.

 W, the Walrus, addicted to chat.

 X, Executioner, seeking the cat.

 Y is the Youth Father William surveyed.

 Z is the Zigzag the mouse's tail made.

 The Funny Kittens

 Once there were some silly kittens,
 And they knitted woolly mittens
   To bestow upon the freezing Hottentots.
 But the Hottentots refused them,
 Saying that they never used them
   Unless crocheted of red with yellow spots.

 So the silly little kittens
 Took their blue and white striped mittens
   To a Bear who lived within a hollow tree;
 The Bear responded sadly,
 "I would wear your mittens gladly,
   But I fear they are too gay for such as me."

 Then the kittens, almost weeping,
 Came to where a Cow lay sleeping,
   And they woke her with this piteous request,
 "Won't you wear our mittens furry?"
 Said the Cow, "My dears, don't worry;
   I will put them on as soon as I am dressed."

 Then the Cow put on her bonnet
 With a wreath of roses on it,
   And a beautiful mantilla fringed with white;
 And she donned the pretty mittens,
 While the silly little kittens
   Clapped their paws in admiration at the sight.

 The Strike of the Fireworks

 'Twas the night before the Fourth of July, the people slept serene;
 The fireworks were stored in the old town hall that stood
               on the village green.
 The steeple clock tolled the midnight hour, and at its final stroke,
 The fire in the queer old-fashioned stove lifted its voice and spoke;
 "The earth and air have naught to do, the water, too, may play,
 And only fire is made to work on Independence Day.

 "I won't stand such injustice! It's wrong, beyond a doubt,
 And I shall take my holiday. Good-by, I'm going out!"
 Up spoke a Roman candle then, "The principle is right!
 Suppose we strike, and all agree we will not work to-night!"
 "My stars!" said a small sky-rocket. "What an awful time there'll be,
 When the whole town comes together to-night, the great display to see!"
 "Let them come," said a saucy pinwheel, "yes, let them come if they like,
 As a delegate I'll announce to them that the fireworks
               are going to strike!"
 "My friends," said a small cap-pistol, "this movement is all wrong,--
 Gunpowder, noise, and fireworks to Fourth of July belong.
 My great ancestral musket made Independence Day,
 I frown on your whole conspiracy, and you are wrong, I say!"

 And so they talked and they argued, some for and some against,--
 And they progressed no further than they were when they commenced.
 Until in a burst of eloquence a queer little piece of punk
 Arose in his place and said, "I think we ought to show some spunk.
 And I for one have decided, although I am no shirk,
 That to-day is a legal holiday and not even fire should work.

 "And I am of some importance,"--here he gave a pretentious cough,
 "For without my assistance none of you could very well be put off."
 "You are right," said the Roman candle, "and I think we are all agreed
 To strike for our rights and our liberty. Hurrah! we shall succeed!"
 The dissenters cried with one accord, "Our objections we withdraw.
 Hurrah, hurrah for the fireworks' strike!" and they cried again, "Hurrah!"

 Then a match piped up with a tiny voice, "Your splendid scheme I like.
 I agree with all your principles and so I, too, will strike!"
 Suiting the action to the word, the silly little dunce
 Clambered down from his matchsafe and excitedly struck at once.
 He lost his head, and he ran around among the fireworks dry,
 And he cried, "Hurrah for the fireworks' strike! Hurrah for the
               Fourth of July!"

 With his waving flame he lit the punk--a firecracker caught a spark,--
 Then rockets and wheels and bombs went off--no longer the place was dark!
 The explosions made a fearful noise, the flames leaped high and higher,
 The village folk awoke and cried, "The town hall is on fire!"
 So the strike of the fireworks ended in a wonderful display
 Of pyrotechnic grandeur on Independence Day!

 The Arch Armadillo

 There once was an arch Armadillo
 Who built him a hut 'neath a willow;
       He hadn't a bed
       So he rested his head
 On a young Porcupine for a pillow.

 A Dream Lesson

 Once there was a little boy who wouldn't go to bed,
 When they hinted at the subject he would only shake his head,
 When they asked him his intentions, he informed them pretty straight
 That he wouldn't go to bed at all, and Nursey needn't wait.

 As their arguments grew stronger, and their attitude more strict,
 I grieve to say that naughty boy just yelled and screamed and kicked.
 And he made up awful faces, and he told them up and down
 That he wouldn't go to bed for all the nurses in the town.

 Then Nursey lost her patience, and although it wasn't right,
 Retorted that for all she cared he might sit up all night.
 He approved of this arrangement, and he danced a jig for joy,
 And turned a somersault with glee; he _was_ a naughty boy.

 And so they all went off to bed and left him sitting there,
 Right in the corner by the fire in Grandpa's big armchair.
 He read his books and played his games,--he even sang a song
 And thought how lovely it would be to sit up all night long.

 But soon his games grew stupid, and his puzzles wouldn't work;
 He drew himself up stiffly with a sudden little jerk,
 And he said, "I am not sleepy, and I love to play alone--
 And--I--think--" the rest was mumbled in a drowsy monotone.

 He leaned back on the cushions like that night he had the croup;
 His head began to wobble and his eyes began to droop;
 He closed them for a minute, just to see how it would seem,
 And straightway he was sound asleep, and dreamed this awful dream!

 He thought he saw a garden filled with flowers and roses gay,
 A great big gardener with a hoe came walking down his way;
 "Ah, ha!" exclaimed the gardener, as he clutched him by the head,
 "Here's a fine specimen I've found; I'll plant him in this bed!"

 He held the boy in one big hand, unheeding how he cried,
 And with the other dug a hole enormous, deep, and wide.
 He jammed the little fellow in, and said in gruffest tone,
 "This is the bed for naughty boys who won't go to their own."

 And then the dirt was shovelled in,--it covered up his toes,
 His ankles, knees, and waist and arms, and higher yet it rose.
 For still the gardener shovelled on, not noticing his cries;
 It came up to his chin and mouth--it almost reached his eyes;

 Just then he gathered all his strength and gave an awful scream,
 And woke himself, and put an end to that terrific dream.
 And he said, as Nursey tucked him up and bade him snugly rest,
 "When I am planted in a bed, I like my own the best."

 The Rivals

 Two well-built men, neither giant nor dwarf,
 Were Monsieur Elims and Mynheer Nworf.
 They lived in a town not far away,
 And spent their time in work and play.
 Now Monsieur Elims was loved by all--
 By rich and poor, by great and small.
 And Mynheer Nworf remarked one day,
 "Brother, explain to me, I pray,
 Why no one likes me as well as you,
 No matter what I may say or do.
 I have stores of knowledge packed in my head;
 I am learned and wise and very well read;
 I can dance, I can sing, I'm extremely polite;
 I am worth a large fortune all in my own right.
 But still,--and this question has caused me much thought,--
 While I am neglected, you're everywhere sought."
 Monsieur Elims replied: "My dear sir, that is true,
 But you see, I am I, and you see, you are you.
 If I receive praises and you receive blame,
 'Tis doubtless because each lives up to his name."

 You'll find his defence rather puzzling, I fear;
 But read their names backward--the meaning is clear.

 The New Cup

 "I've a lovely new cup from Uncle John,"
   Said Dorothy; "only see--
 It has beautiful golden letters on,
   And they spell '_Remember Me_.'"

 "Oho!" laughed Fred. "Why, Dorothy dear,
   They put that on mugs and plates:
 _I_'ve studied jography 'most a year,
   And I know the names of the States.

 And when you see that anywhere,--
   At least, since this fuss with Spain,--
 It's the President who puts it there,
   And it means 'Remember the Maine'!"

 A Photographic Failure

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Saw a patient Periwinkle
 With a kodak, sitting idly by a rill.
     Feeling a desire awaken
     For to have his picture taken,
 Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle stood stock-still.

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Felt his brow begin to wrinkle,
 And his pose assume a sad and solemn style;
     But the Periwinkle trusted,
     As the focus he adjusted,
 That his customer would kindly try to smile.

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Felt his eyes begin to twinkle,
 And his mouth took on a broad and open grin;
     Said the Periwinkle, sadly,
     "If you stretch your jaw so madly,
 I fear perhaps that I shall tumble in."

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Felt his hair begin to crinkle,
 As it rose up on his forehead in affright;
     Though his comrade spoke so mildly,
     Mr. Hinkle wondered wildly,
 How he could escape this dire and awful plight.

     Mr. Hezekiah Hinkle
     Said, "I fear it's going to sprinkle,
 And really for a storm I'm not prepared."
     Then without a further warning
     He politely said, "Good morning,"
 And the patient Periwinkle stood and stared.

 Christmas Gifts

 Ten Christmas presents standing in a line;
 Robert took the bicycle, then there were nine.
 Nine Christmas presents ranged in order straight;
 Bob took the steam engine, then there were eight.
 Eight Christmas presents--and one came from Devon;
 Robbie took the jackknife, then there were seven.
 Seven Christmas presents direct from St. Nick's;
 Bobby took the candy box, then there were six.
 Six Christmas presents, one of them alive;
 Rob took the puppy dog, then there were five.
 Five Christmas presents yet on the floor;
 Bobbin took the soldier cap, then there were four.
 Four Christmas presents underneath the tree;
 Bobbet took the writing desk, then there were three.
 Three Christmas presents still in full view;
 Robin took the checker board, then there were two.
 Two Christmas presents, promising fun,
 Bobbles took the picture book, then there was one.
 One Christmas present--and now the list is done;
 Bobbinet took the sled, and then there were none.
 And the same happy child received every toy,
 So many nicknames had one little boy.

 Young America

 Wee Willie sat a-thinking,
   And he shook his curly head.
 Around him on the nursery floor
   His treasures lay outspread.

 Firecrackers and torpedoes,
   Trumpet and flag and drum,
 Rockets and pinwheels and paper caps,
   For Fourth of July had come.

 "But it makes me sort o' sorry,"
   Wee Willie said with a sigh,
 "To think of those poor little English boys
   Without any Fourth of July."

 A Bicycle built for Two

 There was an ambitious young eel
 Who determined to ride on a wheel;
       But try as he might,
       He couldn't ride right,
 In spite of his ardor and zeal.

 If he sat on the saddle to ride
 His tail only pedalled one side;
       And I'm sure you'll admit
       That an eel _couldn't_ sit
 On a bicycle saddle astride.

 Or if he hung over the top,
 He could go, but he never could stop;
       For of course it is clear
       He had no way to steer,
 And under the wheel he would flop.

 His neighbor, observing the fun,
 Said, "I think that the thing can be done,
       If you'll listen to me,
       You'll quickly agree
 That two heads are better than one.

 "And this is my project, old chap,
 Around our two waists I will wrap
       This beautiful belt
       Of bottle-green felt
 And fasten it firm with a strap."

 This done, with a dignified mien
 The two squirmed up on the machine,
       And rode gayly away,
       Or at least, so they say,
 Who witnessed the wonderful scene.

 Dorothy's Opinion

 Mamma has bought a calendar,
   And every single page
 Has pictures on of little girls
   'Most just about my age.

 And when she bought it yesterday,
   Down at the big bazaar,
 She said, "What lovely little girls,
   How true to life they are."

 But I don't think they're true to life,
   And I'll just tell you why;
 They never have a rumpled frock
   Or ribbon bow awry.

 And though they play with cats and dogs,
   And rabbits and white mice,
 And sail their boats and fly their kites,
   They always look so nice.

 And I am sure no little girl
   That ever _I_ have seen,
 Could play with dogs or sail a boat
   And keep her frock so clean.

 The Roll of Roly Poly Roy

 Once on a time a lad I knew--
   His sister called him Bubby;
 His cheeks were red, his eyes were blue,
   And he was plump and chubby.
 Indeed, he was so stout a boy,
 Some called him Roly Poly Roy;
     They called him that
     For he was fat
 And very plump and chubby.

 He caused his father grief profound,
   And made his mother worry,
 Because he'd roll along the ground
   When he was in a hurry.
 For as he couldn't see his toes,
 He often tumbled on his nose;
     So, on the whole,
     'Twas best to roll
 When he was in a hurry.

 "Get up!" the people urged, but he
   Replied, "There's no use talking;
 I roll around because, you see,
   It's easier than walking."
 And though it looked extremely droll
 To see the lad lie down and roll,
     It was, forsooth,
     For that fat youth
 Far easier than walking.

 One day he thought he'd try to ride;
   Alas, he was so bulky,
 He tumbled off the other side,
   Which made him rather sulky.
 He heard his comrades jeer and scoff,
 Again he tried and tumbled off,
     And when he fell
     They'd shout and yell--
   Of course it made him sulky.

 Just out of town there was a place
   With rolling ground and hilly,
 And here Roy started for a race
   With Dick and Tom and Willy.
 You'll know of course before you're told
 That Roy just laid him down and rolled;
     And so, you see,
     He easily
   Beat Dick and Tom and Willy.

 That day two giants came along
   From Huncamunca Valley,
 Seeking some tenpins good and strong
   For their new bowling alley.
 They reached the hilly sort of place
 Just as our hero won the race;
     "Look at him roll!"
     They said. "He'll bowl
   On our new bowling alley.

 "The other boys are squarely built;
   For tenpins they'll do finely!
 No matter if a few get kilt,"
   And then they smiled benignly.
 Quickly they kidnapped ten small boys,
 All howling with a fearful noise;
     They took them all,
     And Roy for ball,
   And then they smiled benignly.

 They hurried to their home and then
   Began their barbarous bowling.
 They set in rows the children ten
   And then set Roy a-rolling.
 But as the giants were strong and great,
 They shot poor Roy at such a rate,
     And with such might,
     That out of sight
   Poor Roy was set a-rolling.

 He rolled and rolled and rolled and rolled,
   But soon, his fears dispelling,
 With happiness he did behold
   He'd safely reached his dwelling.
 Secure and safe from further harms,
 His mother caught him in her arms,
     And said with joy,
     "My darling boy,
  You've safely reached your dwelling."

 Now rolling seems to him to be
   More dangerous than walking.
 And Roly Poly Roy you'll see
   Along the sidewalks stalking.
 He'll always have a certain fear
 That giants may be lurking near,
     And so he'll go
     With motion slow
   Along the sidewalk stalking.

 My Barometer

 My little maid with golden hair
   Comes each morning for a kiss;
 And I know the day will be fine and fair
   When Polly looks like this.

 Or I know the clouds will frown and lower,
   The skies will be dull and gray,
 And perhaps there'll be a passing shower,
   When Polly looks this way.

 But a violent storm of rain or snow
   I can prognosticate,
 For the sign will never fail, I know,
   When this is Polly's pate.

 The Butter Betty Bought

 Betty Botta bought some butter;
 "But," said she, "this butter's bitter!
 If I put it in my batter
 It will make my batter bitter.
 But a bit o' better butter
 Will but make my batter better."
 Then she bought a bit o' butter
 Better than the bitter butter,
 Made her bitter batter better.
 So 'twas better Betty Botta
 Bought a bit o' better butter.

 A Marvel

 An old astronomer there was
   Who lived up in a tower,
 Named Ptolemy Copernicus
   Flammarion McGower.
 He said: "I can prognosticate
   With estimates correct;
 And when the skies I contemplate,
   I know what to expect.
 When dark'ning clouds obscure my sight,
   I think perhaps 'twill rain;
 And when the stars are shining bright,
   I know 'tis clear again."
 And then abstractedly he scanned
   The heavens, hour by hour,
 Old Ptolemy Copernicus
   Flammarion McGower.

 An Alphabet Zoo

 A was an apt Alligator,
 Who wanted to be a head-waiter;
     He said, "I opine
     In that field I could shine,
 Because I am such a good skater."

 B was a beggarly Bear,
 Who carefully curled his front hair;
     He said, "I would buy
     A red-spotted tie,--
 But I haven't a penny to spare."

 C was a cool Chimpanzee,
 Who went to an afternoon tea.
     When they said, "Will you take
     A caraway cake?"
 He greedily took twenty-three!

 D was a diligent Doe,
 In summer she shovelled the snow;
     In the spring and the fall
     She did nothing at all,
 And in winter the grass she would mow.

 E was an erudite Ermine,
 Who tried very hard to determine
     If he _should_ earn a cent,
     How it ought to be spent,
 And decided to purchase a sermon.

 F was a fussy Flamingo,
 Who remarked to his family, "By jingo!
     I think I would go
     To that animal show,
 But they all talk such barbarous lingo."

 G was a giddy Gazelle,
 Who never could learn how to spell;
     But she managed to pass
     To the head of her class,
 Because she did fractions so well.

 H was a haughty young Hawk,
 Who affected society talk;
     But when introduced
     At a large chicken roost
 He excitedly screamed out, "Oh, Lawk!"

 I was an idle Iguana,
 Who lived upon curried banana;
     With tears he'd protest
     That he never could rest
 Till he learned to sing "Eileen Alanna."

 J was a jimp Jaguar,
 Who purchased a Spanish guitar;
     He played popular airs
     At _fetes_ and at fairs,
 And down at the Fancy Bazaar.

 K was a kind Kangaroo,
 Whose bonnet was always askew;
     So they asked her to wait
     While they put it on straight
 And fastened it firmly with glue.

 L was a lachrymose Leopard,
 Who ate up twelve sheep and a shepherd,
     But the real reason why
     He continued to cry
 Was his food was so lavishly peppered.

 M was a mischievous Marten,
 Who went to the Free Kindergarten;
     When they asked him to plat
     A gay-colored mat,
 He tackled the job like a Spartan.

 N was a naughty Nylghau,
 Who wandered too near a buzz saw.
     It cut off his toes,
     And the shrieks that arose
 Filled all of the neighbors with awe.

 O was an ossified Oyster,
 Who decided to enter a cloister.
     He could not return,
     So continued to yearn
 For his home in the sea, which was moister.

 P was a poor old Poll Parrot,
 Who had nothing to eat but a carrot,
     And nothing to wear
     But a wig of red hair,
 And nowhere to live but a garret.

 Q was a querulous Quab
 Who at every trifle would sob;
     He said, "I detest
     To wear a plaid vest,
 And I hate to eat corn from the cob!"

 R was a rollicking Ram,
 Attired in an old pillow sham.
     When asked if he'd call
     At the masquerade ball,
 He said, "I'll go just as I am."

 S was a shy Salamander,
 Who slept on a sunny veranda.
     She calmly reposed,
     But, alas! while she dozed
 They caught her and killed her and canned her.

 T was a tidy young Tapir,
 Who went out to bring in the paper;
     And when he came back
     He made no muddy track,
 For he wiped his feet clean on the scraper.

 U was a young Unicorn,
 The bravest that ever was born.
     They bought him a boat
     And they set him afloat,
 And straightway he sailed for Cape Horn.

 V was a vigorous Vulture,
 Who taught animals physical culture;
     When a pupil dropped dead,
     The kind teacher said,
 "You needn't consider sepulture."

 W was a wild Worm,
 All day he did nothing but squirm.
     They sent him to school,
     But he broke every rule,
 And left at the end of the term.

 X was a Xiphias brave,
 Who lived on the crest of the wave.
     To each fish he would say,
     "Good day, sir, good day!"
 And then a polite bow he gave.

 Y was a young Yellowhammer,
 Who raised a ridiculous clamor;
     And he chattered until
     An owl said, "Keep still!
 I'm trying to study my grammar."

 Z was a zealous old Zibet,
 Toboggans he tried to prohibit.
     If any one tried
     To take a sly slide,
 He ordered him hanged on a gibbet.

 Found Wanting

 There lived a wondrous sculptor once, a genius in his way,
 Named Phidias Praxiteles Canova Merryday.
 He sat within his studio and said, "I really must
 Begin a Rhodian anaglyptic ceroplastic bust.

 "My customers demand them, their fame rings near and far,
 But then, alas, the trouble is, I don't know what they are.
 Though I could carve a Venus or a Belvedere with ease,
 My wondrous skill is lacking when it comes to carving these.

 "I cast and cut and chisel, I model and I mould,
 I copy poses picturesque from studies new and old;
 In marble, bronze, and potter's clay, in wax and wood and stone
 I carve the old-time statues with improvements of my own.

 "I have Apollo on a horse, Minerva on a wheel,
 Hercules going fishing with his basket and his creel.
 A Mercury on roller-skates, Diana with a hat,
 And Venus playing tennis with Achilles at the bat.

 "Yet these my customers pass by, and ask with interest keen,
 For things with long and tiresome names,--I don't know what they mean.
 And so I let my hammers hang, and let my chisels rust,
 For I cannot do an anaglyptic ceroplastic bust."

 A Tragic Tale of Tea

 The Beetle was blind, and the Bat was blinder,
 And they went to take tea with the Scissors-grinder.
 The Scissors-grinder had gone away
 Across the ocean to spend the day;
 But he'd tied his bell to the grapevine swing.
 The Bat and the Beetle heard it ring,
 And neither the Beetle nor Bat could see
 Why no one offered them any tea.
 So, polite and patient, they're waiting yet
 For the cup of tea they expect to get.

 The Erratic Rat

 There was a ridiculous Rat
 Who was awfully puffy and fat.
     "I'll carry," he said,
     "This plate on my head,
 'Twill answer in place of a hat."

 And then he remarked with a frown,
 "I suppose that I must have a gown;
     I'll make me a kilt
     Of this old crazy-quilt,
 To wear when I'm going to town.

 "And of course, though the weather is warm,
 It may be there'll come up a storm;
     An umbrella I'll make
     Of a caraway cake,
 It'll match with my whole uniform.

 And I'll carry a bottle of ink
 In case I should wish for a drink;
     And this flat-iron so sweet
     I'll take with me to eat,
 And now I am ready, I think."

 The Two Friends

 A Spider and a Centipede went out to take a walk;
 The Centipede said frankly, "I will listen while you talk,
 But I may appear distracted, or assume a vacant stare,
 Because to keep my feet in step requires my constant care."

     Said the Spider: "I appreciate your most peculiar case,
     And your feet must be quite handy when you want to run a race;
     But though you gain in some ways, in some other ways you lose;
     And, of course, my friend, you must be quite extravagant in shoes."

 "Ah! yes. Ah! yes," a heavy sigh escaped the Centipede;
 "And I have other trials, too;--my life is hard indeed!
 Why, sometimes when I'm very tired, a long, long time it takes
 To ascertain with certainty which foot it is that aches.

 "And when I go to dancing-class on Saturdays at three,
 I find the First Position very difficult for me.
 Though I put my best foot foremost, and good time I try to keep,
 To my chagrin, I often find a foot or two asleep.

     Athletics I attempted, but, alas! I must admit
     That every exercise I tried I put my foot in it.
     I think I'll join a foot-ball team,--as many friends suggest,--
     Before I've one foot in the grave and gout in all the rest.

 But now I'll say good-morning; for, my friend, I have to stop
 To get my boots blacked neatly at this little boot-black's shop;
 And, as you may imagine, it will keep me here some time,
 But, what is worse, I'll have to pay him many a hard-earned dime."

     The Spider said good-morning, and pursued his way alone,
     And as he went he murmured, in a thoughtful undertone:
     "I'm a happy little Spider, and I'm very glad indeed,
     That I was born an octoped and not a centipede!"

 The Smiling Shark

 There was an old Shark with a smile
 So broad you could see it a mile.
     He said to his friends,
     As he sewed up the ends,
 "It was really too wide for the style."

 The Mercury's Plaint

 I don't know why I'm slandered so,
 If I go high,--if I go low,--
 There's always some one who will say,
 "Just see that mercury to-day!"
 And whether toward the top I crawl
 Or down toward zero I may fall,
 They always fret, and say that I
 Am far too low or far too high.
 Although I try with all my might,
 I never seem to strike it right.
 Now I admit it seems to me
 They show great inconsistency.
 But _they_ imply _I_ am to blame;
 Of course that makes my anger flame,
 And in a fiery fit of pique
 I stay at ninety for a week.
 Or sometimes in a dull despair,
 I give them just a frigid stare;
 And as upon their taunts I think
 My spirits down to zero sink.
 Mine is indeed a hopeless case;
 To strive to please the human race!

 The Pirate Poodle

 Once there was a Pirate Poodle,
   And he sailed the briny seas
 From the land of Yankee Doodle
   Southward to the Caribbees.

 He would boast with tales outlandish,
   Of his valor and renown;
 And his cutlass he would brandish
   With a fearful pirate frown.

 So ferocious was his manner
   All his crew looked on, aghast;
 And his fearful pirate banner
   Floated from his pirate mast.

 He reiterated proudly
   Naught had power to make him quail;
 Yet when thunder roared _too_ loudly
   He would turn a trifle pale.

 And he turned a little paler
   When there came a sudden squall;
 For this funny little sailor
   Was ridiculously small.

 And whene'er a storm portended
   He'd betake himself below.
 So much fear and courage blended
   Did a pirate ever show?

 An Old Love

 Priscilla, Auntie's promised me
   A brand-new Paris doll;
 And though I love you, yet you see
   I cannot keep you all.

 Nursey declares I really must
   Throw one of you away;
 And you're the oldest, so I trust
   You will not care to stay.

 You've lost an arm, your dress is torn,
   Your wig is all awry;
 Priscilla, you are so forlorn,
   We'll have to say good-by.

 And yet--oh, don't! my dolly dear,
   _Don't_ look so sad, I pray!
 You precious dolly, come right here,
   You _shan't_ be thrown away!

 You're ragged, yes, and lame and blind,
   You're really but a wreck;
 But, dear Priscilla, never mind,
   _I_ do not care a speck.

 Your eyes do nicely when they're shut,
   And I can mend the rest;
 Well--p'raps I'll love the new one--but
   I'll always love _you_ best.

 Bobby's Pocket

 Our Bobby is a little boy, of six years old, or so;
 And every kind of rubbish in his pocket he will stow.

 One day he thought he'd empty it (so he again could stock it);
 And here's an alphabet of what was found in Bobby's pocket.

 A was a rosy Apple, with some bites out, here and there;
 B was a bouncing rubber Ball that bounded in the air.

 C was a crispy crusty Cake with citron on the top;
 D was a dancing Donkey that could jump around and hop.

 E was a little robin's Egg, all speckled blue and brown;
 F was a fluffy Feather that was white and soft as down.

 G was a lively Grasshopper, whose legs and wings were green;
 H was a grimy Handkerchief that once perhaps was clean.

 I was a plaster Image that had lost its plaster head;
 J was a jolly Jumping-Jack all painted blue and red.

 K was a keen and shining Knife, 'twould cut the toughest bark;
 L was a little wooden Lion, strayed out of Noah's Ark.

 M was a Marble, large and round, with colors bright and clear;
 N was a bent and rusty Nail, of little use, I fear.

 O was a tiny Oil-can, which was always upside down;
 P was a Penny Bob had saved to spend some day in town.

 Q was a Quilted ear-tab, which had lost its velvet mate;
 R was a Ring with a glassy gem of wondrous size and weight.

 S was a String, a piece of Soap, a Stone, a Sponge, a Stick;
 T was a lump of Taffy, exceeding soft and thick.

 U, an Umbrella-handle, of silver-mounted horn;
 V was a comic Valentine, a little creased and worn.

 W was some sticky Wax, lovely to pinch and mould;
 X was an old Xpress receipt, worn out in every fold.

 Y was a lot of Yellow Yarn, all bunched up like a mop;
 Z was a jagged piece of Zinc, found in a plumber's shop.

 All these are Bob's possessions; he loves every single thing;
 And owning all these treasures he's as happy as a King!

 The Instructiphone

 There was a youthful genius once, a boy of thirteen years,
 Named Cyrus Franklin Edison Lavoisier De Squeers.
 To study he was not inclined, for fun he had a bent;
 But there was just one article he wanted to invent.

 "It's a sort of a contraption which will work itself," he said,
 "And, without studying, will put my lessons in my head."
 He thought and puzzled o'er his plan, he worked with might and main
 To utilize the wondrous schemes within his fertile brain:

 Until at last the thing was done, and to his friends said he:
 "It is the wonder of the age! Success I can foresee!
 My great invention is complete, and--'tis no idle vaunt--
 I'm sure that my Instructiphone will fill a long-felt want.

 "The action is quite simple--I will try to make it clear:
 This funnel-shaped receiver I apply to my left ear;
 Then in this hopper I will put whate'er I wish to learn--
 A page of history or of Greek,--and then this crank I'll turn.

 "The topic goes into this tube, a sort of phonograph
 Which acts directly on my mind,--it _does_, you needn't laugh!
 I do not have to think at all, for, as I pull this chain,
 My wonderful machine transmits the knowledge to my brain."

 The plan was good, the works were fine, and yet there was a flaw;
 When Cyrus turned the crank around, the neighbors watched with awe.
 He confidently pulled the chain with motion quick and deft;
 The knowledge entered his right ear--and came out at his left.

 He tried again,--a page of Greek; he tried a theme occult,--
 A message and an errand,--every time the same result!
 Then Cyrus knew that somehow his machine had missed its aim;
 For though the works ran smoothly it was always just the same.

 No matter what the book might be, or what it was about,
 It would go in at one ear,--at the other 'twould come out!
 So in his laboratory, baffled Cyrus sitting lone,
 Strives to correct the sad defect in his Instructiphone.

 But it is my opinion, there's no fault in the machine:
 The trouble is that Cyrus is like other boys I've seen.

 The Lay of the Lady Lorraine

 The Lady Lorraine was sweet and fair;
   The Lady Lorraine was young;
 She had wonderful eyes and glorious hair,
 And a voice of a cadence rich and rare;
 Oh, she was a lady beyond compare--
   By all were her praises sung,
       Till valley and plain
       Took up the refrain,
 And rang with the praise of the Lady Lorraine.

 And besides all charms of form and face,
 There were other attractions about Her Grace;
 Besides her delicate, lily-white hands,
 She had rolling acres and broad, rich lands;
 Besides her patrician coat of arms,
 She had far-reaching forests and fertile farms;
 And of many an ancient and wide domain
 The beautiful lady was chatelaine.
       So of course at her door
       There were suitors galore;
 They came by the dozen, and came by the score.

 They came in droves, and they came in hordes,
 Titled nobility,--princes, lords,
 Dukes and marquises, viscounts and peers,
 Ambassadors, marshals, grandees, grenadiers,
 Barons and baronets, earls, and esquires,
 Illustrious sons of illustrious sires:
       But 'twas ever in vain
       They sought to attain
 The heart and the hand of the Lady Lorraine.
       And day after day
       They turned sadly away;
 For the Lady Lorraine continued to say,
 Decidedly, certainly, stubbornly, "Nay!"
 She cared not for wreaths of laurel or bay,
 Their titles or rent rolls or uniforms gay,
 Their medals or ribbons or gaudy display,
 Their splendid equipment, demeanor, or bearing;
 She observed not their manners, nor what they were wearing;
 Their marvellous exploits for her had no charms:
 Their prowess in tourney, their valor at arms;
 Their wondrous achievements of brawn or of brain,--
 All, all were as naught to the Lady Lorraine.
 To each suitor she'd say, with her hand on her heart,
 "Sir, I ask of you only that you will depart."

 In vain they entreated, they begged and they plead,
 They coaxed and besought, and they sullenly said
 That she was hard-hearted, unfeeling, and cruel.
 They challenged each other to many a duel;
 They scowled and they scolded, they sulked and they sighed,
 But they could not win Lady Lorraine for a bride.

 Now the reason for this, as you may have divined,
 Was because in her maidenly heart was enshrined
 The image of one who was just to her mind:
       Who was loving and kind,
       To whose faults she was blind,--
 The lord of her heart, and the love of her life,
 To whom she had promised to be a fond wife.
 Her Highness was happy, for even now he
 Was hastening to her across the blue sea.
 He had written to say he was then on the way,
 And would greet his fair lady on Christmas day.

       *       *       *

 'Twas Christmas eve. In the old oak hall
 Preparations were made for the Christmas ball.
 Gay garlands were hung from ceiling and wall;
 The Yule log was laid, the tables arrayed,
 And the Lady Lorraine and her whole cavalcade,
 From the pompous old steward to the scullery-maid,
       Were all in a fluster,
       Excitement and bluster,
 And everything shone with a marvellous lustre.

 Such savory viands the larders presented;
 Such wondrous confections the bakers invented:
 Such pasties and cates of eccentric design;
 Such sparkling decanters of rarest old wine;
 And ready at hand was the great wassail-bowl,
 And the jolly old boar's head, with lemon, so droll.
 The nook for musicians was carefully planned,
 And carols and glees would be played by the band.

 At last all was ready. The workmen were done;
 And awaiting the jollity, mirth, and frivolity,
 The games and the dancing, the feasting and fun,
 The old hall was empty,--save only for one,--
 The Lady Lorraine, who surveyed it with pride,
 And said, "It is worthy of Lord Cecil's bride!"
 Then a bright smile illumined her happy young face,
 Her roguish eyes twinkled, and gayly Her Grace
 Crossed the old polished floor with a step light and quick,
 And her high slipper heels went clickety-click.
 She looked cautiously round,--she was all by herself;
       Like a mischievous elf,
       She took from a shelf
 A mistletoe spray with its berries like pearls;
 Then tossing her head and shaking her curls,
 In a manner half daring and yet half afraid,
 The madcap maid, with a smile that betrayed
 Expectant thoughts of her lover dear,
 Fastened the spray to the chandelier.

 Then in a merry, fanciful mood,
 Inspired by the time and the solitude,
       The Lady Lorraine,
       In whimsical vein,
 Said, "On Christmas eve, 'neath this mistletoe bough,
 I'll solemnly make an immutable vow."
 With a glance at the portraits that hung on the wall,
 She said, "I adjure ye to witness, all:
 I vow by the names that I've long revered,--
 By my great-great-grandfather's great gray beard,
 By my father's sword, by my uncle's hat,
 By my spinster aunt's Angora cat,
 By my ancient grandame's buckled shoes,
 By my uncle Gregory's marvellous brews,
       By Sir Sydney's wig,
       And his ruff so big,--
 Indeed, by his whole preposterous rig,--
 By the scutcheon and crest, and all the rest
 Of the signs of my house, I vow this vow:
 That whoever beneath this mistletoe bough
 Shall first kiss me, he--none but he--
 My partner for life shall henceforth be."

 She had scarcely ceased when she heard a sound.
       She looked around,
       And, startled, found
 From the old oak chimney place it came.
 For there, as if in an old oak frame,
 A figure quaint, yet familiar too,
 Met her astonished, bewildered view.
 Of aspect merry, yet something weird,
 With kind blue eyes and a long white beard,
 Fur-trimmed cloak, and a peaked cap,
 Rosy cheeks,--a jolly old chap;
 And, though surprised, she recognized
 St. Nicholas, dear to her childhood days,
 And she met his smile with a welcome gaze.

 The jolly old man beheld Her Grace,
 With her laughing eyes and her winsome face;
       He couldn't resist her,--
         Indeed, who could?--
       And he heartily kissed her
         Where she stood!
 And exultingly cried, "I heard your vow;
 And Lady Lorraine shall be _my_ bride now!"

 The lady trembled, as in a daze;
 With a startled gaze of blank amaze,
 She looked at the figure who stood by her side
 And audaciously claimed her for his bride.

       Then she bowed her head
       And the color fled
 From the cheeks that his kiss had flushed rosy red.
 Her heart was filled with a sad despair
 As she thought of her lover, Lord Cecil Clare,
       And his dire dismay
       When on Christmas day
 He should ride up gayly in brave array,
 And find his sweetheart stolen away.

 But the honor and pride of her race were at stake;
       And for conscience' sake
       She dared not break
 Her solemn vow, though her heart might ache.
 To be true to her word, her sire had taught her,
 And she was a loyal, obedient daughter.
 She appealed to the portraits of squires and dames,
 Who looked sternly down from their gilded frames;
 But they seemed to say, "There must ne'er be broken
 A promise or vow a Lorraine has spoken."

 With stifled sighs, and with tears in her eyes,
 Though she tried to assume a cheerful guise,
 She turned to the suitor who stood apart,
 Awaiting the gift of her hand and heart;
 And she said with a gentle, dignified air:
 "My heart belongs to Lord Cecil Clare;
       But my fatal vow,
       Though I rue it now,
 I dare not break. So, at your command,
 I fulfil it! On you I bestow my hand."

 "O noble lady!" her suitor cried,
 "'Twas only a merry test I tried.
       Full well I knew
       That your heart was true.
 Behold your lover, my bonny bride!
 I assumed this guise for a Christmas joke."
       And as he spoke,
       He threw off his cloak,
 He flung to the floor his peaked hood,
 And a gallant knight before her stood!

 He doffed his wig and his long white beard;
 All signs of St. Nicholas disappeared;
 And smiling there, in the firelight's glare,
 Was the gay and noble Lord Cecil Clare!

 The lady marvelled--a glad surprise
 Betokened itself in her lovely eyes;
 And with her merriment quite restored,
 She said, "You are welcome home, my lord;
       And I'm thankful, now,
       That I kept my vow."

 Lord Cecil raised her hand to his lips,
 And gallantly kissed her finger tips;
       While the squires and dames
       Looked down from their frames,
 And "Bless you, my children!" they seemed to say.
 Then the band appeared, and began to play;
 The guests arrived, and without delay
 The fun commenced, and the old oak hall
 Never had known such a Christmas ball!
       The feast was spread,
       And the dance was led
 By the knight and the lady, and every one said,
 With a shout that rent the midnight air,
 "Long live Lord Cecil and Lady Clare!"

 [Illustration]CAUTIONARY TALES FOR CHILDREN

 CAUTIONARY TALES FOR
 CHILDREN

 _Designed for the Admonition of Children between the ages
 of eight and fourteen years_

 Verses by
 H. BELLOC

 Pictures by
 B. T. B.

 DUCKWORTH
 3 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C.

 _All rights reserved_

 _Made and Printed in Great Britain by_
 _Thomas Nelson and Sons Ltd_
 _London and Edinburgh_

 DEDICATED
 TO
 BOBBY, JOHNNY, AND EDDIE
 SOMERSET

INTRODUCTION

Upon being asked by a Reader whether the verses contained in this book
were true.

    And is it True? It is not True.
    And if it were it wouldn't do,
    For people such as me and you
    Who pretty nearly all day long
    Are doing something rather wrong.
    Because if things were really so,
    You would have perished long ago,
    And I would not have lived to write
    The noble lines that meet your sight,
    Nor B. T. B. survived to draw
    The nicest things you ever saw.
                                 H. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

JIM,

_Who ran away from his Nurse, and was eaten by a Lion._

    There was a Boy whose name was Jim;
    His Friends were very good to him.
    They gave him Tea, and Cakes, and Jam,
    And slices of delicious Ham,
    And Chocolate with pink inside,
    And little Tricycles to ride,
    And

        read him Stories through and through,
    And even took him to the Zoo--
    But there it was the dreadful Fate
    Befell him, which I now relate.

    You know--at least you _ought_ to know.
    For I have often told you so--
    That Children never are allowed
    To leave their Nurses in a Crowd;

    Now this was Jim's especial Foible,
    He ran away when he was able,
    And on this inauspicious day
    He slipped his hand and ran away!
    He hadn't gone a yard when--

                                Bang!
    With open Jaws, a Lion sprang,
    And hungrily began to eat
    The Boy: beginning at his feet.

    Now just imagine how it feels
    When first your toes and then your heels,
    And then by gradual degrees,
    Your shins and ankles, calves and knees,
    Are slowly eaten, bit by bit.

    No wonder Jim detested it!
    No wonder that he shouted "Hi!"
    The Honest Keeper heard his cry,
    Though very fat

                    he almost ran
    To help the little gentleman.
    "Ponto!" he ordered as he came
    (For Ponto was the Lion's name),
    "Ponto!" he cried,

                       with angry Frown.
    "Let go, Sir! Down, Sir! Put it down!"

    The Lion made a sudden Stop,
    He let the Dainty Morsel drop,
    And slunk reluctant to his Cage,
    Snarling with Disappointed Rage
    But when he bent him over Jim,
    The Honest Keeper's

                          Eyes were dim.
    The Lion having reached his Head,
    The Miserable Boy was dead!

    When Nurse informed his Parents, they
    Were more Concerned than I can say:--
    His Mother, as She dried her eyes,
    Said, "Well--it gives me no surprise,
    He would not do as he was told!"
    His Father, who was self-controlled,
    Bade all the children round attend
    To James' miserable end,
    And always keep a-hold of Nurse
    For fear of finding something worse.

HENRY KING,

_Who chewed bits of String, and was early cut off in Dreadful Agonies._

    The Chief Defect of Henry King
    Was

        chewing little bits of String.
    At last he swallowed some which tied
    Itself in ugly Knots inside.

    Physicians of the Utmost Fame
    Were called at once; but when they came
    They answered,

                    as they took their Fees,
    "There is no Cure for this Disease.
    Henry will very soon be dead."
    His Parents stood about his Bed
    Lamenting his Untimely Death,
    When Henry, with his Latest Breath,
    Cried--
    "Oh, my Friends, be warned by me,

    That Breakfast, Dinner, Lunch and Tea
    Are all the Human Frame requires ..."
    With that the Wretched Child expires.

MATILDA,

_Who told Lies, and was Burned to Death._

    Matilda told such Dreadful Lies,

    It made one Gasp and Stretch one's Eyes;
    Her Aunt, who, from her Earliest Youth,
    Had kept a Strict Regard for Truth,

    Attempted to Believe Matilda:
    The effort very nearly killed her,
    And would have done so, had not She
    Discovered this Infirmity.
    For once, towards the Close of Day,
    Matilda, growing tired of play,
    And finding she was left alone,
    Went tiptoe

                to
                   the Telephone
    And summoned the Immediate Aid
    Of London's Noble Fire-Brigade.
    Within an hour the Gallant Band
    Were pouring in on every hand,
    From Putney, Hackney Downs and Bow,
    With Courage high and Hearts a-glow
    They galloped, roaring through the Town,

    "Matilda's House is Burning Down!"
    Inspired by British Cheers and Loud
    Proceeding from the Frenzied Crowd,
    They ran their ladders through a score
    Of windows on the Ball Room Floor;
    And took Peculiar Pains to Souse
    The Pictures up and down the House,

    Until Matilda's Aunt succeeded
    In showing them they were not needed
    And even then she had to pay
    To get the Men to go away!

       *       *       *

    It happened that a few Weeks later
    Her Aunt was off to the Theatre
    To see that Interesting Play
    _The Second Mrs. Tanqueray._

    She had refused to take her Niece
    To hear this Entertaining Piece:
    A Deprivation Just and Wise
    To Punish her for Telling Lies.
    That Night a Fire _did_ break out--
    You should have heard Matilda Shout!
    You should have heard her Scream and Bawl,
    And throw the window up and call
    To People passing in the Street--
    (The rapidly increasing Heat
    Encouraging her to obtain
    Their confidence)--but all in vain!
    For every time She shouted "Fire!"

    They only answered "Little Liar!"
    And therefore when her Aunt returned,
    Matilda, and the House, were Burned.

FRANKLIN HYDE,

_Who caroused in the Dirt and was corrected by His Uncle._

    His Uncle came on Franklin Hyde
    Carousing in the Dirt.
    He Shook him hard from Side to Side
    And

    Hit him till it Hurt,

    Exclaiming, with a Final Thud,
    "Take

           that! Abandoned Boy!
    For Playing with Disgusting Mud
    As though it were a Toy!"

MORAL

    From Franklin Hyde's adventure, learn
    To pass your Leisure Time
    In Cleanly Merriment, and turn
    From Mud and Ooze and Slime
    And every form of Nastiness--
    But, on the other Hand,
    Children in ordinary Dress
    May always play with Sand.

GODOLPHIN HORNE,

_Who was cursed with the Sin of Pride, and Became a Boot-Black._

    Godolphin Horne was Nobly Born;
    He held the Human Race in Scorn,
    And lived with all his Sisters where
    His father lived, in Berkeley Square.
    And oh! the Lad was Deathly Proud!
    He never shook your Hand or Bowed,
    But merely smirked and nodded

                                    thus:
    How perfectly ridiculous!
    Alas! That such Affected Tricks
    Should flourish in a Child of Six!
    (For such was Young Godolphin's age).

    Just then, the Court required a Page,
    Whereat

            the Lord High Chamberlain
    (The Kindest and the Best of Men),
    He went good-naturedly and

                         took
    A Perfectly Enormous Book
    Called _People Qualified to Be
    Attendant on His Majesty_,
    And murmured, as he scanned the list
    (To see that no one should be missed),
    "There's

    William Coutts has got the Flue,

    And Billy Higgs would never do,

    And Guy de Vere is far too young,

    And ... wasn't D'Alton's Father hung?
    And as for Alexander Byng!-- ...
    I think I know the kind of thing,
    A Churchman, cleanly, nobly born,
    Come
          let us say Godolphin Horne?"
    But hardly had he said the word
    When Murmurs of Dissent were heard.
    The King of Iceland's Eldest Son
    Said, "Thank you! I am taking none!"
    The Aged Duchess of Athlone
    Remarked, in her sub-acid tone,
    "I doubt if He is what we need!"
    With which the Bishops all agreed;
    And even Lady Mary Flood
    (_So_ Kind, and oh! so _really_ good)
    Said, "No! He wouldn't do at all,
    He'd make us feel a lot too small,"
    The Chamberlain said,
                      " ... Well, well, well!
    No doubt you're right.... One cannot tell!"
    He took his Gold and Diamond Pen
    And

            Scratched Godolphin out again.
    So now Godolphin is the Boy
    Who blacks the Boots at the Savoy.

ALGERNON,

_Who played with a Loaded Gun, and, on missing his Sister was
reprimanded by his Father._

    Young Algernon, the Doctor's Son,
    Was

        playing with a Loaded Gun.
    He pointed it towards his sister,
    Aimed very carefully, but

                             Missed her!

    His Father, who was standing near,

    The Loud Explosion chanced to Hear,

    And reprimanded Algernon
    For playing with a Loaded Gun.

HILDEBRAND,

_Who was frightened by a Passing Motor, and was brought to Reason._

    "Oh, Murder! What was that, Papa!"
    "My child,
                It was a Motor-Car,
    A Most Ingenious Toy!

    Designed to Captivate and Charm
    Much rather than to rouse Alarm
    In any English Boy.

    "What would your Great Grandfather who

    Was Aide-de-Camp to General Brue,
    And lost a leg at

                      Waterloo,
    And

    Quatre-Bras and

                      Ligny too!
    And died at Trafalgar!--

    What would he have remarked to hear
    His Young Descendant shriek with fear,
    Because he happened to be near
            A Harmless Motor-Car!
    But do not fret about it! Come!
    We'll off to Town

    And purchase some!"

LORD LUNDY,

_Who was too Freely Moved to Tears, and thereby ruined his Political
Career._

    Lord Lundy from his earliest years
    Was far too freely moved to Tears.
    For instance if his Mother said,
    "Lundy! It's time to go to Bed!"
    He bellowed like a Little Turk.
    Or if

           his father Lord Dunquerque
    Said "Hi!" in a Commanding Tone,
    "Hi, Lundy! Leave the Cat alone!"
    Lord Lundy, letting go its tail,
    Would raise so terrible a wail
    As moved
    His
      Grandpapa
                the

                     Duke
    To utter the severe rebuke:
    "When I, Sir! was a little Boy,
    An Animal was not a Toy!"

    His father's Elder Sister, who
    Was married to a Parvenoo,

    Confided to Her Husband, "Drat!
    The Miserable, Peevish Brat!
    Why don't they drown the Little Beast?"
    Suggestions which, to say the least,
    Are not what we expect to hear
    From Daughters of an English Peer.
    His grandmamma, His Mother's Mother,
    Who had some dignity or other,
    The Garter, or no matter what,
    I can't remember all the Lot!
    Said "Oh! that I were Brisk and Spry
    To give him that for which to cry!"
    (An empty wish, alas! for she

    Was Blind and nearly ninety-three).

    The

    Dear Old Butler
                     thought--but there!
    I really neither know nor care
    For what the Dear Old Butler thought!
    In my opinion, Butlers ought
    To know their place, and not to play
    The Old Retainer night and day
    I'm getting tired and so are you,
    Let's cut the Poem into two!

       *       *       *

LORD LUNDY

(_SECOND CANTO_)

    It happened to Lord Lundy then,
    As happens to so many men:
    Towards the age of twenty-six,
    They shoved him into politics;
    In which profession he commanded
    The income that his rank demanded
    In turn as Secretary for
    India, the Colonies, and War.
    But very soon his friends began
    To doubt if he were quite the man:
    Thus, if a member rose to say
    (As members do from day to day),

    "Arising out of that reply ...!"

    Lord Lundy would begin to cry.
    A Hint at harmless little jobs
    Would shake him with convulsive sobs.

    While as for Revelations, these
    Would simply bring him to his knees,
    And leave him whimpering like a child.
    It drove his Colleagues raving wild!
    They let him sink from Post to Post,
    From fifteen hundred at the most
    To eight, and barely six--and then
    To be Curator of Big Ben!...
    And finally there came a Threat
    To oust him from the Cabinet!

    The Duke--his aged grand-sire--bore
    The shame till he could bear no more.
    He rallied his declining powers,
    Summoned the youth to Brackley Towers,
    And bitterly addressed him thus--
    "Sir! you have disappointed us!
    We had intended you to be
    The next Prime Minister but three:
    The stocks were sold; the Press was squared:
    The Middle Class was quite prepared.
    But as it is!... My language fails!

    Go out and govern New South Wales!"

       *       *       *

    The Aged Patriot groaned and died:
    And gracious! how Lord Lundy cried!

REBECCA,

_Who slammed Doors for Fun and Perished Miserably._

    A Trick that everyone abhors
    In Little Girls is slamming Doors.
    A

    Wealthy Banker's
                     Little Daughter

    Who lived in Palace Green, Bayswater
    (By name Rebecca Offendort),
    Was given to this Furious Sport.

    She would deliberately go

    And Slam the door like
                 Billy-Ho!
    To make
            her

                 Uncle Jacob start.
    She was not really bad at heart,
    But only rather rude and wild:
    She was an aggravating child....

    It happened that a Marble Bust
    Of Abraham was standing just
    Above the Door this little Lamb
    Had carefully prepared to Slam,
    And Down it came! It knocked her flat!
    It laid her out! She looked like that.

       *       *       *

    Her funeral Sermon (which was long
    And followed by a Sacred Song)
    Mentioned her Virtues, it is true,
    But dwelt upon her Vices too,
    And showed the Dreadful End of One
    Who goes and slams the door for Fun.

       *       *       *

    The children who were brought to hear
    The awful Tale from far and near
    Were much impressed,
                         and inly swore
    They never more would slam the Door.
    --As often they had done before.

GEORGE,

_Who played with a Dangerous Toy, and suffered a Catastrophe of
considerable Dimensions._

    When George's Grandmamma was told

    That George had been as good as Gold,
    She Promised in the Afternoon
    To buy him an _Immense BALLOON_.
            And

                 so she did; but when it came,
    It got into the candle flame,
    And being of a dangerous sort
    Exploded

                with a loud report!

    The Lights went out! The Windows broke!
    The Room was filled with reeking smoke.
    And in the darkness shrieks and yells
    Were mingled with Electric Bells,
    And falling masonry and groans,
    And crunching, as of broken bones,
    And dreadful shrieks, when, worst of all,
    The House itself began to fall!
    It tottered, shuddering to and fro,
    Then crashed into the street below--
    Which happened to be Savile Row.

       *       *       *

    When Help arrived, among the Dead

    Were

         Cousin Mary,

    Little Fred,

    The Footmen

    (both of them),

    The Groom,

    The man that cleaned the Billiard-Room,

    The Chaplain, and

                      The Still-Room Maid.
    And I am dreadfully afraid
    That Monsieur Champignon, the Chef,
    Will now be

                 permanently deaf--
    And both his
    Aides

           are much the same;
    While George, who was in part to blame,
    Received, you will regret to hear,
    A nasty lump

    behind the ear.

MORAL

    The moral is that little Boys
    Should not be given dangerous Toys.

CHARLES AUGUSTUS FORTESCUE,

_Who always Did what was Right, and so accumulated an Immense Fortune._

    The nicest child I ever knew
    Was Charles Augustus Fortescue.
    He never lost his cap, or tore
    His stockings or his pinafore:
      In eating Bread he made no Crumbs,
      He was extremely fond of sums,

    To which, however, he preferred
    The Parsing of a Latin Word--
    He sought, when it was in his power,
    For information twice an hour,
    And as for finding Mutton-Fat
    Unappetising, far from that!
    He often, at his Father's Board,
    Would beg them, of his own accord,

    To give him, if they did not mind,
    The Greasiest Morsels they could find--
    His Later Years did not belie
    The Promise of his Infancy.

    In Public Life he always tried
    To take a judgment Broad and Wide;

    In Private, none was more than he
    Renowned for quiet courtesy.
    He rose at once in his Career,
    And long before his Fortieth Year
    Had wedded
               Fifi,

                       Only Child
    Of Bunyan, First Lord Aberfylde.
    He thus became immensely Rich,
    And built the Splendid Mansion which
    Is called

    _"The Cedars,
             Muswell Hill,"_
    Where he resides in Affluence still
    To show what Everybody might
    Become by

              SIMPLY DOING RIGHT.THE REAL
    MOTHER GOOSE

  _Illustrated by_
Blanche Fisher Wright

A LIST OF THE RHYMES

Little Bo-Peep
Little Boy Blue
Rain
The Clock
Winter
Fingers and Toes
A Seasonable Song
Dame Trot and Her Cat
Three Children on the Ice
Cross Patch
The Old Woman Under a Hill
Tweedle-Dum and Tweedle-Dee
Oh Dear!
Old Mother Goose
Little Jumping Joan
Pat-a-Cake
Money and the Mare
Robin Redbreast
A Melancholy Song
Jack
Going to St. Ives
Thirty Days Hath September
Baby Dolly
Bees
Come Out to Play
If Wishes Were Horses
To Market
Old Chairs to Mend
Robin and Richard
A Man and a Maid
Here Goes My Lord
The Clever Hen
Two Birds
Leg Over Leg
Lucy Locket
When Jenny Wren Was Young
Barber
The Flying Pig
Solomon Grundy
Hush-a-Bye
Burnie Bee
Three Wise Men of Gotham
The Hunter of Reigate
Little Polly Flinders
Ride Away, Ride Away
Pippen Hill
Pussy-Cat and Queen
The Winds
Clap Handies
Christmas
Elizabeth
Just Like Me
Play Days
Heigh-Ho, the Carrion Crow
ABC
A Needle and Thread
Banbury Cross
The Man in Our Town
Georgy Porgy
For Every Evil
Cushy Cow
Wee Willie Winkie
About the Bush
See-Saw
Robin-a-Bobbin
John Smith
Simple Simon
Three Blind Mice
Five Toes
A Little Man
Doctor Foster
Diddle Diddle Dumpling
Jerry Hall
Lengthening Days
The Black Hen
The Mist
A Candle
Miss Muffet
Curly-Locks
Humpty Dumpty
One, Two, Three
The Dove and the Wren
Master I Have
Pins
Shall We Go A-Shearing?
Goosey, Goosey, Gander
Old Mother Hubbard
The Cock and the Hen
Blue Bell Boy
Why May Not I Love Johnny?
Jack Jelf
Jack Sprat
Hush-a-Bye
Daffodils
The Girl in the Lane
Hush-a-Bye
Nancy Dawson
Handy Pandy
Jack and Jill
The Alphabet
Dance to Your Daddie
One Misty Moisty Morning
Robin Hood and Little John
Rain
The Old Woman from France
Teeth and Gums
The Robins
The Old Man
T'Other Little Tune
My Kitten
If All the Seas Were One Sea
Pancake Day
A Plum Pudding
Forehead, Eyes, Cheeks, Nose, etc.
Two Pigeons
A Sure Test
Lock and Key
The Lion and the Unicorn
The Merchants of London
I Had a Little Husband
To Babylon
I'll Tell You a Story
A Strange Old Woman
Sleep, Baby, Sleep
Cry, Baby
Baa, Baa, Black Sheep
Little Fred
The Cat and the Fiddle
Doctor Fell
A Counting-Out Rhyme
Jack and His Fiddle
Buttons
Hot Boiled Beans
Little Pussy
Sing a Song of Sixpence
Tommy Tittlemouse
The Derby Ram
The Hobby-Horse
The Mulberry Bush
Young Lambs to Sell
Boy and the Sparrow
Old Woman, Old Woman
The First of May
Sulky Sue
The House That Jack Built
Saturday, Sunday
Little Jenny Wren
The Old Woman and the Pedlar
Bobby Snooks
The Little Moppet
I Saw a Ship A-Sailing
A Walnut
The Man in the Moon
One, He Loves
Bat, Bat
Hark! Hark!
The Hart
My Love
The Man of Bombay
Poor Old Robinson Crusoe!
A Sieve
My Maid Mary
A Difficult Rhyme
Pretty John Watts
Good Advice
I Love Sixpence
Bye, Baby Bunting
Tom, Tom, the Piper's Son
Comical Folk
Cock-Crow
Tommy Snooks
The Three Sons
The Blacksmith
Two Gray Kits
One, Two, Buckle My Shoe
Cock-a-Doodle-Do!
Pairs or Pears
Belleisle
Old King Cole
See, See
Dapple-Gray
A Well
Coffee and Tea
Pussy-Cat Mew
The Little Girl with a Curl
Dreams
A Cock and Bull Story
For Baby
Myself
Over the Water
Candle-Saving
Fears and Tears
The Kilkenny Cats
Old Grimes
A Week of Birthdays
A Chimney
Ladybird
The Man Who Had Naught
The Tailors and the Snail
Around the Green Gravel
Intery, Mintery
Caesar's Song
As I Was Going Along
Hector Protector
Billy, Billy
Rock-a-Bye, Baby
The Man in the Wilderness
Little Jack Horner
The Bird Scarer
Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary
Bessy Bell and Mary Gray
Needles and Pins
Pussy-Cat and the Dumplings
Dance, Thumbkin, Dance
Mary's Canary
The Little Bird
Birds of a Feather
The Dusty Miller
A Star
The Greedy Man
The Ten O'Clock Scholar
Cock-a-Doodle-Do
An Icicle
A Ship's Nail
The Old Woman of Leeds
The Boy in the Barn
Sunshine
Willy, Willy
Tongs
Jack Jingle
The Quarrel
The Pumpkin-Eater
Shoeing
Betty Blue
That's All
Bedtime
Dance, Little Baby
My Little Maid
For Want of a Nail
Pease Porridge
Ring a Ring o' Roses
The Crooked Sixpence
This Is the Way
Ducks and Drakes
The Donkey
If
The Bells
Little Girl and Queen
The King of France
Peter Piper
One to Ten
An Equal
The Tarts
Come, Let's to Bed
Little Maid
What Are Little Boys Made Of?
Bandy Legs
The Girl and the Birds
A Pig
Jenny Wren
Little Tom Tucker
Where Are You Going, My Pretty
Maid?
The Old Woman of Gloucester
Multiplication Is Vexation
Little King Boggen
Whistle
Bell Horses
Taffy
The Robin
The Old Woman of Harrow
Young Roger and Dolly
The Piper and His Cow
The Man of Derby
The Coachman
There was an Old Woman
A Thorn
The Old Woman of Surrey
The Little Mouse
Boy and Girl
When
Sing, Sing
London Bridge
March Winds
The Balloon
A Cherry
The Lost Shoe
Hot Codlins
Swan
Three Straws
The Man of Tobago
Ding, Dong, Bell
A Sunshiny Shower
The Farmer and the Raven
Christmas
Willy Boy
Polly and Sukey
The Death and Burial of Poor Cock Robin
The Mouse and the Clock
Hot-Cross Buns
Bobby Shaftoe
The Bunch of Blue Ribbons
The Woman of Exeter
Sneezing
Pussy-Cat by the Fire
When the Snow Is on the Ground

AN ALPHABETICAL LIST OF
FIRST LINES

A, B, C, and D
About the bush, Willie
A carrion crow sat on an oak
A diller, a dollar, a ten o'clock scholar!
A duck and a drake
A farmer went trotting, upon his gray mare
A hill full, a hole full
A little boy went into a barn
A little cock-sparrow sat on a green tree
A little old man of Derby
A man went a-hunting at Reigate
A riddle, a riddle, as I suppose
A robin and a robin's son
Around the green gravel the grass grows green
As I walked by myself
As I was going along, along
As I was going to Derby all on a market-day
As I was going to St. Ives
As I was going to sell my eggs
As I was going up Pippen Hill
As I went through the garden gap
As I went to Bonner
As little Jenny Wren
As round as an apple, as deep as a cup
As soft as silk, as white as milk
As the days grow longer
As Tommy Snooks and Bessy Brooks
A sunshiny shower
A swarm of bees in May
At the siege of Belleisle
Away, birds, away!

Baa, baa, black sheep
Barber, barber, shave a pig
Bat, bat
Bell horses, bell horses, what time of day?
Bessy Bell and Mary Gray
"Billy, Billy, come and play"
Birds of a feather flock together
Black within and red without
Bobby Shaftoe's gone to sea
Bow-wow-wow!
Burnie bee, burnie bee
Buttons, a farthing a pair!
Bye, baby bunting

Christmas comes but once a year
Christmas is coming, the geese are getting fat
Clap, clap handies
Cock-a-doodle-do!
"Cock, cock, cock, cock"
Cocks crow in the morn
Cold and raw the north wind doth blow
Come when you're called
Cross patch, draw the latch
Cry, baby, cry
Curly-locks, Curly-locks, wilt thou be mine?
Cushy cow, bonny, let down thy milk

Daffy-down-dilly has come to town
Dame Trot and her cat
Dance, little Baby, dance up high!
Dance, Thumbkin, dance
Dance to your daddie
Dear, dear! what can the matter be?
Dickory, dickory, dare
Diddle diddle dumpling, my son John
Ding, dong, bell
Doctor Foster went to Glo'ster
Donkey, donkey, old and gray
Doodle doodle doo

Elizabeth, Elspeth, Betsy, and Bess
Every lady in this land

Flour of England, fruit of Spain
For every evil under the sun
For want of a nail, the shoe was lost
Four and Twenty tailors
Friday nights dream, on Saturday told

Georgy Porgy, pudding and pie
Girls and boys, come out to play
Goosey, goosey, gander
Great A, little a
Great A, little a

Handy Pandy, Jack-a-dandy
Hark, hark! the dogs do bark!
Hector Protector was dressed all in green
Here am I, little jumping Joan
Here goes my lord
Here sits the Lord Mayor
Here's Sulky Sue
Here we go round the mulberry bush
Hey, diddle, diddle!
Hey diddle dinkety poppety pet
Hey, my kitten, my kitten
Hick-a-more, Hack-a-more
Hickety, pickety, my black hen
Hickory, dickory, dock!
High diddle doubt, my candle's out
Higher than a house, higher than a tree
Hot-cross Buns!
How many days has my baby to play?
How many miles is it to Babylon?
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall
Hush-a-bye, baby
Hush-a-bye, baby, lie still with thy daddy
Hush-a-bye, baby, on the tree top!
Hush, baby, my dolly, I pray you don't cry

"I am a gold lock"
I do not like thee, Doctor Fell
If all the seas were one sea
If all the world were apple pie
If I'd as much money as I could spend
If I'd as much money as I could tell
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride
If you are to be a gentleman
If you sneeze on Monday, you sneeze for danger
I had a little boy
I had a little hen, the prettiest ever seen
I had a little hobby-horse
I had a little husband no bigger than my thumb
I had a little moppet
I had a little pony
I had two pigeons bright and gay
I have seen you, little mouse
I like little Pussy
I'll tell you a story
I love sixpence, a jolly, jolly sixpence
In a cottage in Fife
Intery, mintery, cutery corn
I saw a ship a-sailing
Is John Smith within?
I went to the wood and got it
"I went up one pair of stairs"
I won't be my father's Jack

Jack and Jill went up the hill
Jack be nimble, Jack be quick
Jack Sprat
"Jacky, come and give me thy fiddle"
Jerry Hall, he was so small
Johnny shall have a new bonnet

Ladies and gentlemen come to supper
Ladybird, ladybird, fly away home!
Leg over leg
"Lend me thy mare to ride a mile"
Little Betty Blue
Little Bobby Snooks was fond of his books
Little Bo-Peep has lost her sheep
Little Boy Blue, come, blow your horn!
"Little girl, little girl, where have you been?"
Little Jack Horner
Little Jack Jelf
Little Jack Jingle
Little Jenny Wren fell sick
Little King Boggen, he built a fine hall
"Little maid, pretty maid, whither goest thou?"
Little Miss Muffet
Little Nanny Etticoat
Little Polly Flinders
Little Robin Redbreast sat upon a tree
Little Tommy Tittlemouse
Little Tom Tucker
Lives in winter
London Bridge is broken down
Long legs, crooked thighs
Lucy Locket lost her pocket

March winds and April showers
Margaret wrote a letter
Mary had a pretty bird
Mary, Mary, quite contrary
Master I have, and I am his man
Mister East gave a feast
Molly, my sister and I fell out
Monday's child is fair of face
Multiplication is vexation
My little old man and I fell out
My maid Mary she minds the dairy

Nancy Dawson was so fine
Needles and pins, needles and pins

Oh, dear, what can the matter be?
Oh, my pretty cock, oh, my handsome cock
Old Grimes is dead, that good old man
Old King Cole
Old Mother Goose, when
Old Mother Hubbard
Old Mother Twitchett had but one eye
"Old woman, old woman, shall we go a-shearing?"
Once I saw a little bird
One, he loves; two, he loves
One misty moisty morning
One, two, buckle my shoe
One, two, three, four, five
1,2,3,4,5!
On Saturday night
Over the water
Over the water, and over the sea

Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake
Pease porridge hot
Peter, Peter, pumpkin-eater
Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers
Piping hot, smoking hot
Polly, put the kettle on
Poor old Robinson Crusoe!
Pretty John Watts
Pussy-cat ate the dumplings, the dumplings
Pussy-cat Mew jumped over a coal
"Pussy-cat, pussy-cat"
Pussy-cat sits by the fire

Rain, rain, go away
Rain, rain, go to Spain
Read my riddle, I pray
Ride a cock-horse to Banbury Cross
Ride away, ride away
Ring a ring o' roses
"Robert Barnes, my fellow fine"
Robin-a-Bobbin
Robin and Richard were two pretty men
Robin Hood, Robin Hood
Rock-a-bye, baby, thy cradle is green

Saw ye aught of my love a-coming from the market?
See a pin and pick it up
See-saw, Margery Daw
See, see! What shall I see?
Shoe the colt
Simple Simon met a pieman
Sing a song of sixpence
Sing, sing, what shall I sing?
Sleep, baby, sleep
Solomon Grundy
Swan, swan, over the sea

Taffy was a Welshman, Taffy was a thief
The cock's on the housetop blowing his horn
The dove says coo, coo, what shall I do?
The fair maid who, the first of May
The girl in the lane, that couldn't speak plain
The greedy man is he who sits
The hart he love's the high wood
The King of France went up the hill
The little robin grieves
The Lion and the Unicorn were fighting for the crown
The Man in the Moon came tumbling down
The Man in the Moon looked out of the moon
The man in the wilderness
The north wind doth blow
The Queen of Hearts
There came an old woman from France
There dwelt an old woman at Exeter
There's a neat little clock
There was a crooked man, and he went a crooked mile
There was a fat man of Bombay
There was a little boy and a little girl
There was a little girl who had a little curl
There was a little man
There was a little man, and he had a little gun
There was a little woman, as I've been told
There was a man and he had naught
There was a man in our town
There was an old man
There was an old man of Tobago
There was an old woman
There was an old woman, and what do you think?
There was an old woman, as I've heard tell
There was an old woman had three sons
There was an old woman in Surrey
There was an old woman of Gloucester
There was an old woman of Harrow
There was an old woman of Leeds
There was an old woman sat spinning
There was an old woman tossed in a basket
There was an old woman who lived in a shoe
There was a piper had a cow
There were once two cats of Kilkenny
There were two birds sat on a stone
The two gray kits
Thirty days hath September
Thirty white horses upon a red hill
This is the house that Jack built
This is the way the ladies ride
This little pig went to market
Three blind mice! See how they run!
Three children sliding on the ice
Three straws on a staff
Three wise men of Gotham
"To bed! To bed"
To make your candles last for aye
To market, to market, to buy a fat pig
Tommy's tears and Mary's fears
Tom, Tom, the piper's son
Trip upon trenchers
'Twas once upon a time, when Jenny Wren was young
Tweedle-dum and Tweedle-dee
Twelve pairs hanging high

Up at Piccadilly, oh!

Wee Willie Winkle runs through the town
What are little boys made of, made of?
"What is the news of the day"
What is the rhyme for porringer?
When I was a bachelor
When I was a little girl, about seven years old
When little Fred went to bed
"Where are you going, my pretty maid?"
"Whistle, daughter, whistle"
Who killed Cock Robin?
"Willy boy, Willy boy, where are you going?"
Willy, Willy Wilkin

Young Roger came tapping at Dolly's window
"You owe me five shillings"
You shall have an apple

  THE REAL
MOTHER GOOSE

LITTLE BO-PEEP

Little Bo-Peep has lost her sheep,
  And can't tell where to find them;
Leave them alone, and they'll come home,
  And bring their tails behind them.

Little Bo-Peep fell fast asleep,
  And dreamt she heard them bleating;
But when she awoke, she found it a joke,
  For still they all were fleeting.

Then up she took her little crook,
  Determined for to find them;
She found them indeed, but it made her heart bleed,
  For they'd left all their tails behind 'em!

It happened one day, as Bo-peep did stray
  Unto a meadow hard by--
There she espied their tails, side by side,
  All hung on a tree to dry.

She heaved a sigh and wiped her eye,
  And over the hillocks she raced;
And tried what she could, as a shepherdess should,
  That each tail should be properly placed.

LITTLE BOY BLUE

Little Boy Blue, come, blow your horn!
The sheep's in the meadow, the cow's in the corn.
Where's the little boy that looks after the sheep?
Under the haystack, fast asleep!

RAIN

Rain, rain, go away,
Come again another day;
Little Johnny wants to play.

THE CLOCK

There's a neat little clock,--
  In the schoolroom it stands,--
And it points to the time
  With its two little hands.

And may we, like the clock,
  Keep a face clean and bright,
With hands ever ready
  To do what is right.

WINTER

Cold and raw the north wind doth blow,
Bleak in the morning early;
All the hills are covered with snow,
And winter's now come fairly.

FINGERS AND TOES

Every lady in this land
Has twenty nails, upon each hand
Five, and twenty on hands and feet:
All this is true, without deceit.

A SEASONABLE SONG

Piping hot, smoking hot.
    What I've got
    You have not.
Hot gray pease, hot, hot, hot;
Hot gray pease, hot.

DAME TROT AND HER CAT

Dame Trot and her cat
  Led a peaceable life,
When they were not troubled
  With other folks' strife.

When Dame had her dinner
  Pussy would wait,
And was sure to receive
  A nice piece from her plate.

THREE CHILDREN ON THE ICE

Three children sliding on the ice
    Upon a summer's day,
As it fell out, they all fell in,
    The rest they ran away.

Oh, had these children been at school,
    Or sliding on dry ground,
Ten thousand pounds to one penny
    They had not then been drowned.

Ye parents who have children dear,
    And ye, too, who have none,
If you would keep them safe abroad
    Pray keep them safe at home.

CROSS PATCH

Cross patch, draw the latch,
  Sit by the fire and spin;
Take a cup and drink it up,
  Then call your neighbors in.

THE OLD WOMAN UNDER A HILL

There was an old woman
  Lived under a hill;
And if she's not gone,
  She lives there still.

TWEEDLE-DUM AND TWEEDLE-DEE

Tweedle-dum and Tweedle-dee
    Resolved to have a battle,
For Tweedle-dum said Tweedle-dee
    Had spoiled his nice new rattle.

Just then flew by a monstrous crow,
    As big as a tar barrel,
Which frightened both the heroes so,
    They quite forgot their quarrel.

OH, DEAR!

Dear, dear! what can the matter be?
Two old women got up in an apple-tree;
One came down, and the other stayed till Saturday.

OLD MOTHER GOOSE

Old Mother Goose, when
  She wanted to wander,
Would ride through the air
  On a very fine gander.

LITTLE JUMPING JOAN

    Here am I, little jumping Joan,
When nobody's with me
    I'm always alone.

PAT-A-CAKE

Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake,
  Baker's man!
So I do, master,
  As fast as I can.

Pat it, and prick it,
  And mark it with T,
Put it in the oven
  For Tommy and me.

MONEY AND THE MARE

"Lend me thy mare to ride a mile."
"She is lamed, leaping over a stile."

"Alack! and I must keep the fair!
I'll give thee money for thy mare."

"Oh, oh! say you so?
Money will make the mare to go!"

ROBIN REDBREAST

Little Robin Redbreast sat upon a tree,
Up went Pussy-Cat, down went he,
Down came Pussy-Cat, away Robin ran,
Says little Robin Redbreast: "Catch me if you can!"

Little Robin Redbreast jumped upon a spade,
Pussy-Cat jumped after him, and then he was afraid.
Little Robin chirped and sang, and what did Pussy say?
Pussy-Cat said: "Mew, mew, mew," and Robin flew away.

A MELANCHOLY SONG

Trip upon trenchers,
And dance upon dishes,
My mother sent me for some barm, some barm;
She bid me go lightly,
And come again quickly,
For fear the young men should do me some harm.
Yet didn't you see, yet didn't you see,
What naughty tricks they put upon me?
They broke my pitcher
And spilt the water,
And huffed my mother,
And chid her daughter,
And kissed my sister instead of me.

JACK

Jack be nimble, Jack be quick,
Jack jump over the candlestick.

GOING TO ST. IVES

As I was going to St. Ives
I met a man with seven wives.
Every wife had seven sacks,
Every sack had seven cats,
Every cat had seven kits.
Kits, cats, sacks, and wives,
How many were going to St. Ives?

THIRTY DAYS HATH SEPTEMBER

Thirty days hath September,
April, June, and November;
February has twenty-eight alone,
All the rest have thirty-one,
Excepting leap-year, that's the time
When February's days are twenty-nine.

BABY DOLLY

Hush, baby, my dolly, I pray you don't cry,
And I'll give you some bread, and some milk by-and-by;
Or perhaps you like custard, or, maybe, a tart,
Then to either you're welcome, with all my heart.

BEES

A swarm of bees in May
Is worth a load of hay;
A swarm of bees in June
Is worth a silver spoon;
A swarm of bees in July
Is not worth a fly.

COME OUT TO PLAY

Girls and boys, come out to play,
The moon doth shine as bright as day;
Leave your supper, and leave your sleep,
And come with your playfellows into the street.
Come with a whoop, come with a call,
Come with a good will or not at all.
Up the ladder and down the wall,
A half-penny roll will serve us all.
You find milk, and I'll find flour,
And we'll have a pudding in half an hour.

IF WISHES WERE HORSES

If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
If turnips were watches, I would wear one by my side.
    And if "ifs" and "ands"
    Were pots and pans,
There'd be no work for tinkers!

TO MARKET

To market, to market, to buy a fat pig.
Home again, home again, jiggety jig.
To market, to market, to buy a fat hog,
Home again, home again, jiggety jog.
To market, to market, to buy a plum bun,
Home again, home again, market is done.

OLD CHAIRS TO MEND

If I'd as much money as I could spend,
I never would cry old chairs to mend;
Old chairs to mend, old chairs to mend;
I never would cry old chairs to mend.

If I'd as much money as I could tell,
I never would cry old clothes to sell;
Old clothes to sell, old clothes to sell;
I never would cry old clothes to sell.

ROBIN AND RICHARD

Robin and Richard were two pretty men,
They lay in bed till the clock struck ten;
Then up starts Robin and looks at the sky,
"Oh, brother Richard, the sun's very high!
You go before, with the bottle and bag,
And I will come after on little Jack Nag."

A MAN AND A MAID

    There was a little man,
    Who wooed a little maid,
And he said, "Little maid, will you wed, wed, wed?
    I have little more to say,
    So will you, yea or nay,
For least said is soonest mended-ded, ded, ded."

    The little maid replied,
    "Should I be your little bride,
Pray what must we have for to eat, eat, eat?
    Will the flame that you're so rich in
    Light a fire in the kitchen?
Or the little god of love turn the spit, spit, spit?"

HERE GOES MY LORD

      Here goes my lord
A trot, a trot, a trot, a trot,
      Here goes my lady
A canter, a canter, a canter, a canter!

      Here goes my young master
Jockey-hitch, jockey-hitch, jockey-hitch, jockey-hitch!
      Here goes my young miss
An amble, an amble, an amble, an amble!

The footman lags behind to tipple ale and wine,
And goes gallop, a gallop, a gallop, to make up his time.

THE CLEVER HEN

I had a little hen, the prettiest ever seen,
She washed me the dishes and kept the house clean;
She went to the mill to fetch me some flour,
She brought it home in less than an hour;
She baked me my bread, she brewed me my ale,
She sat by the fire and told many a fine tale.

TWO BIRDS

There were two birds sat on a stone,
    Fa, la, la, la, lal, de;
One flew away, and then there was one,
    Fa, la, la, la, lal, de;
The other bird flew after,
And then there was none,
    Fa, la, la, la, lal, de;
And so the stone
Was left alone,
    Fa, la, la, la, lal, de.

LEG OVER LEG

Leg over leg,
As the dog went to Dover;
When he came to a stile,
Jump, he went over.

LUCY LOCKET

Lucy Locket lost her pocket,
Kitty Fisher found it;
Nothing in it, nothing in it,
But the binding round it.

WHEN JENNY WREN WAS YOUNG

'Twas once upon a time, when Jenny Wren was young,
So daintily she danced and so prettily she sung,
Robin Redbreast lost his heart, for he was a gallant bird.
So he doffed his hat to Jenny Wren, requesting to be heard.

"Oh, dearest Jenny Wren, if you will but be mine,
You shall feed on cherry pie and drink new currant wine,
I'll dress you like a goldfinch or any peacock gay,
So, dearest Jen, if you'll be mine, let us appoint the day."

Jenny blushed behind her fan and thus declared her mind:
"Since, dearest Bob, I love you well, I'll take your offer kind.
Cherry pie is very nice and so is currant wine,
But I must wear my plain brown gown and never go too fine."

BARBER

Barber, barber, shave a pig.
How many hairs will make a wig?
Four and twenty; that's enough.
Give the barber a pinch of snuff.

THE FLYING PIG

Dickory, dickory, dare,
The pig flew up in the air;
The man in brown soon brought
      him down,
          Dickory,
            dickory,
              dare.

SOLOMON GRUNDY

Solomon Grundy,
Born on a Monday,
Christened on Tuesday,
Married on Wednesday,
Took ill on Thursday,
Worse on Friday,
Died on Saturday,
Buried on Sunday.
This is the end
Of Solomon Grundy.

HUSH-A-BYE

Hush-a-bye, baby, on the tree top!
When the wind blows the cradle will rock;
When the bough breaks the cradle will fall;
Down will come baby, bough, cradle and all.

BURNIE BEE

Burnie bee, burnie bee,
Tell me when your wedding be?
If it be to-morrow day,
Take your wings and fly away.

THREE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM

Three wise men of Gotham
Went to sea in a bowl;
If the bowl had been stronger
My song had been longer.

THE HUNTER OF REIGATE

A man went a-hunting at Reigate,
And wished to leap over a high gate.
  Says the owner, "Go round,
  With your gun and your hound,
For you never shall leap over my gate."

LITTLE POLLY FLINDERS

Little Polly Flinders
Sat among the cinders
    Warming her pretty little toes;
Her mother came and caught her,
Whipped her little daughter
    For spoiling her nice new clothes.

RIDE AWAY, RIDE AWAY

Ride away, ride away,
  Johnny shall ride,
And he shall have pussy-cat
  Tied to one side;
And he shall have little dog
  Tied to the other,
And Johnny shall ride
  To see his grandmother.

PIPPEN HILL

As I was going up Pippen Hill,
    Pippen Hill was dirty;
There I met a pretty Miss,
    And she dropped me a curtsy.

Little Miss, pretty Miss,
    Blessings light upon you;
If I had half-a-crown a day,
    I'd spend it all upon you.

PUSSY-CAT AND QUEEN

"Pussy-cat, pussy-cat,
    Where have you been?"
"I've been to London
    To look at the Queen."

"Pussy-cat, pussy-cat,
    What did you there?"
"I frightened a little mouse
    Under the chair."

THE WINDS

Mister East gave a feast;
Mister North laid the cloth;
Mister West did his best;
Mister South burnt his mouth
Eating cold potato.

CLAP HANDIES

    Clap, clap handies,
Mammie's wee, wee ain;
    Clap, clap handies,
Daddie's comin' hame,
Hame till his bonny wee bit laddie;
    Clap, clap handies,
    My wee, wee ain.

CHRISTMAS

Christmas comes but once a year,
And when it comes it brings good cheer.

ELIZABETH

Elizabeth, Elspeth, Betsy, and Bess,
They all went together to seek a bird's nest;
They found a bird's nest with five eggs in,
They all took one, and left four in.

JUST LIKE ME

"I went up one pair of stairs."
    "Just like me."

"I went up two pairs of stairs."
    "Just like me."

"I went into a room."
    "Just like me."

"I looked out of a window."
    "Just like me."

"And there I saw a monkey."
    "Just like me."

PLAY DAYS

How many days has my baby to play?
    Saturday, Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
    Saturday, Sunday, Monday.

HEIGH-HO, THE CARRION CROW

A carrion crow sat on an oak,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
Watching a tailor shape his cloak;
    Sing heigh-ho, the carrion crow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

Wife, bring me my old bent bow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
That I may shoot yon carrion crow;
    Sing heigh-ho, the carrion crow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

The tailor he shot, and missed his mark,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!
And shot his own sow quite through the heart;
    Sing heigh-ho, the carrion crow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

Wife! bring brandy in a spoon,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!
For our old sow is in a swoon;
    Sing heigh-ho, the carrion crow,
    Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

ABC

Great A, little a,
  Bouncing B!
The cat's in the cupboard,
  And can't see me.

A NEEDLE AND THREAD

Old Mother Twitchett had but one eye,
And a long tail which she let fly;
And every time she went through a gap,
A bit of her tail she left in a trap.

BANBURY CROSS

Ride a cock-horse to Banbury Cross,
To see an old lady upon a white horse.
Rings on her fingers, and bells on her toes,
She shall have music wherever she goes.

THE MAN IN OUR TOWN

There was a man in our town,
    And he was wondrous wise,
He jumped into a bramble bush,
    And scratched out both his eyes;
But when he saw his eyes were out,
    With all his might and main,
He jumped into another bush,
    And scratched 'em in again.

GEORGY PORGY

Georgy Porgy, pudding and pie,
Kissed the girls and made them cry.
When the boys came out to play,
Georgy Porgy ran away.

FOR EVERY EVIL

For every evil under the sun
There is a remedy or there is none.
If there be one, seek till you find it;
If there be none, never mind it.

CUSHY COW

Cushy cow, bonny, let down thy milk,
And I will give thee a gown of silk;
A gown of silk and a silver tee,
If thou wilt let down thy milk to me.

WEE WILLIE WINKIE

Wee Willie Winkie runs through the town,
Upstairs and downstairs, in his nightgown;
Rapping at the window, crying through the lock,
"Are the children in their beds? Now it's eight o'clock."

ABOUT THE BUSH

About the bush, Willie,
    About the beehive,
About the bush, Willie,
    I'll meet thee alive.

SEE-SAW

See-saw, Margery Daw,
Sold her bed and lay upon straw.

ROBIN-A-BOBBIN

Robin-a-Bobbin
Bent his bow,
Shot at a pigeon,
And killed a crow.

JOHN SMITH

Is John Smith within?
Yes, that he is.
Can he set a shoe?
Ay, marry, two.
Here a nail, there a nail,
Tick, tack, too.

SIMPLE SIMON

Simple Simon met a pieman,
    Going to the fair;
Says Simple Simon to the pieman,
    "Let me taste your ware."

Says the pieman to Simple Simon,
    "Show me first your penny,"
Says Simple Simon to the pieman,
    "Indeed, I have not any."

Simple Simon went a-fishing
    For to catch a whale;
All the water he could find
    Was in his mother's pail!

Simple Simon went to look
    If plums grew on a thistle;
He pricked his fingers very much,
    Which made poor Simon whistle.

He went to catch a dicky bird,
    And thought he could not fail,
Because he had a little salt,
    To put upon its tail.

He went for water with a sieve,
    But soon it ran all through;
And now poor Simple Simon
    Bids you all adieu.

THREE BLIND MICE

Three blind mice! See how they run!
They all ran after the farmer's wife,
Who cut off their tails with a carving knife.
Did you ever see such a thing in your life
As three blind mice?

FIVE TOES

This little pig went to market;
This little pig stayed at home;
This little pig had roast beef;
This little pig had none;
This little pig said, "Wee, wee!
I can't find my way home."

A LITTLE MAN

There was a little man, and he had a little gun,
  And his bullets were made of lead, lead, lead;
He went to the brook, and saw a little duck,
  And shot it right through the head, head, head.

He carried it home to his old wife Joan,
  And bade her a fire to make, make, make.
To roast the little duck he had shot in the brook,
  And he'd go and fetch the drake, drake, drake.

The drake was a-swimming with his curly tail;
  The little man made it his mark, mark, mark.
He let off his gun, but he fired too soon,
  And the drake flew away with a quack, quack, quack.

DOCTOR FOSTER

Doctor Foster went to Glo'ster,
  In a shower of rain;
He stepped in a puddle, up to his middle,
  And never went there again.

DIDDLE DIDDLE DUMPLING

Diddle diddle dumpling, my son John
Went to bed with his breeches on,
One stocking off, and one stocking on;
Diddle diddle dumpling, my son John.

JERRY HALL

Jerry Hall, he was so small,
A rat could eat him, hat and all.

LENGTHENING DAYS

As the days grow longer
The storms grow stronger.

THE BLACK HEN

Hickety, pickety, my black hen,
She lays eggs for gentlemen;
Gentlemen come every day
To see what my black hen doth lay.

THE MIST

A hill full, a hole full,
Yet you cannot catch a bowl full.

A CANDLE

Little Nanny Etticoat
In a white petticoat,
And a red nose;
The longer she stands
The shorter she grows.

MISS MUFFET

    Little Miss Muffet
    Sat on a tuffet,
Eating of curds and whey;
    There came a big spider,
    And sat down beside her,
And frightened Miss Muffet away.

CURLY-LOCKS

Curly-locks, Curly-locks, wilt thou be mine?
Thou shalt not wash the dishes, nor yet feed the swine;
But sit on a cushion, and sew a fine seam
And feed upon strawberries, sugar, and cream.

HUMPTY DUMPTY

Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall,
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall;
All the King's horses, and all the King's men
Cannot put Humpty Dumpty together again.

ONE, TWO, THREE

One, two, three, four, five,
Once I caught a fish alive.
Six, seven, eight, nine, ten,
But I let it go again.
Why did you let it go?
Because it bit my finger so.
Which finger did it bite?
The little one upon the right.

THE DOVE AND THE WREN

The dove says coo, coo, what shall I do?
I can scarce maintain two.
Pooh, pooh! says the wren, I've got ten,
And keep them all like gentlemen.

MASTER I HAVE

Master I have, and I am his man,
    Gallop a dreary dun;
Master I have, and I am his man,
    And I'll get a wife as fast as I can;
With a heighty gaily gamberally,
    Higgledy piggledy, niggledy, niggledy,
    Gallop a dreary dun.

PINS

See a pin and pick it up,
All the day you'll have good luck.
See a pin and let it lay,
Bad luck you'll have all the day.

SHALL WE GO A-SHEARING?

"Old woman, old woman, shall we go a-shearing?"
"Speak a little louder, sir, I am very thick of hearing."
"Old woman, old woman, shall I kiss you dearly?"
"Thank you, kind sir, I hear you very clearly."

GOOSEY, GOOSEY, GANDER

Goosey, goosey, gander,
  Whither dost thou wander?
Upstairs and downstairs
  And in my lady's chamber.

There I met an old man
  Who wouldn't say his prayers;
I took him by the left leg,
  And threw him down the stairs.

OLD MOTHER HUBBARD

Old Mother Hubbard
Went to the cupboard,
  To give her poor dog a bone;
But when she got there
The cupboard was bare,
  And so the poor dog had none.

She went to the baker's
  To buy him some bread;
When she came back
  The dog was dead.

She went to the undertaker's
  To buy him a coffin;
When she got back
  The dog was laughing.

She took a clean dish
  To get him some tripe;
When she came back
  He was smoking a pipe.

She went to the alehouse
  To get him some beer;
When she came back
  The dog sat in a chair.

She went to the tavern
  For white wine and red;
When she came back
  The dog stood on his head.

She went to the hatter's
  To buy him a hat;
When she came back
  He was feeding the cat.

She went to the barber's
  To buy him a wig;
When she came back
  He was dancing a jig.

She went to the fruiterer's
  To buy him some fruit;
When she came back
  He was playing the flute.

She went to the tailor's
  To buy him a coat;
When she came back
  He was riding a goat.

She went to the cobbler's
  To buy him some shoes;
When she came back
  He was reading the news.

She went to the sempster's
  To buy him some linen;
When she came back
  The dog was a-spinning.

She went to the hosier's
  To buy him some hose;
When she came back
  He was dressed in his clothes.

The dame made a curtsy,
  The dog made a bow;
The dame said, "Your servant,"
  The dog said, "Bow-wow."

THE COCK AND THE HEN

"Cock, cock, cock, cock,
I've laid an egg,
Am I to gang ba--are-foot?"

"Hen, hen, hen, hen,
I've been up and down
To every shop in town,
And cannot find a shoe
To fit your foot,
If I'd crow my hea--art out."

BLUE BELL BOY

I had a little boy,
  And called him Blue Bell;
Gave him a little work,--
  He did it very well.

I bade him go upstairs
  To bring me a gold pin;
In coal scuttle fell he,
  Up to his little chin.

He went to the garden
  To pick a little sage;
He tumbled on his nose,
  And fell into a rage.

He went to the cellar
  To draw a little beer;
And quickly did return
  To say there was none there.

WHY MAY NOT I LOVE JOHNNY?

Johnny shall have a new bonnet,
  And Johnny shall go to the fair,
And Johnny shall have a blue ribbon
  To tie up his bonny brown hair.

And why may not I love Johnny?
  And why may not Johnny love me?
And why may not I love Johnny
  As well as another body?

And here's a leg for a stocking,
  And here's a foot for a shoe,
And he has a kiss for his daddy,
  And two for his mammy, I trow.

And why may not I love Johnny?
  And why may not Johnny love me?
And why may not I love Johnny
  As well as another body?

JACK JELF

    Little Jack Jelf
    Was put on the shelf
Because he could not spell "pie";
    When his aunt, Mrs. Grace,
    Saw his sorrowful face,
She could not help saying, "Oh, fie!"

    And since Master Jelf
    Was put on the shelf
Because he could not spell "pie,"
    Let him stand there so grim,
    And no more about him,
For I wish him a very good-bye!

JACK SPRAT

    Jack Sprat
    Could eat no fat,
His wife could eat no lean;
    And so,
    Betwixt them both,
They licked the platter clean.

HUSH-A-BYE

  Hush-a-bye, baby,
    Daddy is near;
Mamma is a lady,
  And that's very clear.

DAFFODILS

Daffy-down-dilly has come to town
In a yellow petticoat and a green gown.

THE GIRL IN THE LANE

The girl in the lane, that couldn't speak plain,
  Cried, "Gobble, gobble, gobble":
The man on the hill that couldn't stand still,
  Went hobble hobble, hobble.

HUSH-A-BYE

Hush-a-bye, baby, lie still with thy daddy,
  Thy mammy has gone to the mill,
To get some meal to bake a cake,
  So pray, my dear baby, lie still.

NANCY DAWSON

Nancy Dawson was so fine
She wouldn't get up to serve the swine;
She lies in bed till eight or nine,
So it's Oh, poor Nancy Dawson.

And do ye ken Nancy Dawson, honey?
The wife who sells the barley, honey?
She won't get up to feed her swine,
And do ye ken Nancy Dawson, honey?

HANDY PANDY

Handy Pandy, Jack-a-dandy,
Loves plum cake and sugar candy.
He bought some at a grocer's shop,
And out he came, hop, hop, hop!

JACK AND JILL

Jack and Jill went up the hill,
  To fetch a pail of water;
Jack fell down, and broke his crown,
  And Jill came tumbling after.

Then up Jack got and off did trot,
  As fast as he could caper,
To old Dame Dob, who patched his nob
  With vinegar and brown paper.

THE ALPHABET

A, B, C, and D,
Pray, playmates, agree.
E, F, and G,
Well, so it shall be.
J, K, and L,
In peace we will dwell.
M, N, and O,
To play let us go.
P, Q, R, and S,
Love may we possess.
W, X, and Y,
Will not quarrel or die.
Z, and ampersand,
Go to school at command.

DANCE TO YOUR DADDIE

Dance to your daddie,
My bonnie laddie;
Dance to your daddie, my bonnie lamb;
You shall get a fishy,
On a little dishy;
You shall get a fishy, when the boat comes home.

ONE MISTY MOISTY MORNING

One misty moisty morning,
    When cloudy was the weather,
I chanced to meet an old man,
    Clothed all in leather.
He began to compliment
    And I began to grin.
How do you do? And how do you do?
    And how do you do again?

ROBIN HOOD AND LITTLE JOHN

Robin Hood, Robin Hood,
    Is in the mickle wood!
Little John, Little John,
    He to the town is gone.

Robin Hood, Robin Hood,
    Telling his beads,
All in the greenwood
    Among the green weeds.

Little John, Little John,
    If he comes no more,
Robin Hood, Robin Hood,
    We shall fret full sore!

RAIN

Rain, rain, go to Spain,
And never come back again.

THE OLD WOMAN FROM FRANCE

There came an old woman from France
Who taught grown-up children to dance;
    But they were so stiff,
    She sent them home in a sniff,
This sprightly old woman from France.

TEETH AND GUMS

Thirty white horses upon a red hill,
Now they tramp, now they champ, now they stand still.

THE ROBINS

A robin and a robin's son
Once went to town to buy a bun.
They couldn't decide on plum or plain,
And so they went back home again.

THE OLD MAN

There was an old man
In a velvet coat,
He kissed a maid
And gave her a groat.
The groat it was crack'd
And would not go,--
Ah, old man, do you serve me so?

T'OTHER LITTLE TUNE

I won't be my father's Jack,
  I won't be my father's Jill;
I will be the fiddler's wife,
  And have music when I will.
      T'other little tune,
      T'other little tune,
      Prithee, Love, play me
      T'other little tune.

MY KITTEN

Hey, my kitten, my kitten,
  And hey, my kitten, my deary!
Such a sweet pet as this
  Was neither far nor neary.

IF ALL THE SEAS WERE ONE SEA

If all the seas were one sea,
What a _great_ sea that would be!
And if all the trees were one tree,
What a _great_ tree that would be!
And if all the axes were one axe,
What a _great_ axe that would be!
And if all the men were one man,
What a _great_ man he would be!
And if the _great_ man took the _great_ axe,
And cut down the _great_ tree,
And let it fall into the _great_ sea,
What a splish splash _that_ would be!

PANCAKE DAY

Great A, little a,
This is pancake day;
Toss the ball high,
Throw the ball low,
Those that come after
May sing heigh-ho!

A PLUM PUDDING

Flour of England, fruit of Spain,
  Met together in a shower of rain;
Put in a bag tied round with a string;
  If you'll tell me this riddle,
  I'll give you a ring.

FOREHEAD, EYES, CHEEKS, NOSE, MOUTH, AND CHIN

Here sits the Lord Mayor,
    Here sit his two men,
Here sits the cock,
    Here sits the hen,
Here sit the little chickens,
    Here they run in.
Chin-chopper, chin-chopper, chin chopper, chin!

TWO PIGEONS

I had two pigeons bright and gay,
They flew from me the other day.
What was the reason they did go?
I cannot tell, for I do not know.

A SURE TEST

If you are to be a gentleman,
    As I suppose you'll be,
You'll neither laugh nor smile,
    For a tickling of the knee.

LOCK AND KEY

"I am a gold lock."
"I am a gold key."
"I am a silver lock."
"I am a silver key."
"I am a brass lock."
"I am a brass key."
"I am a lead lock."
"I am a lead key."
"I am a don lock."
"I am a don key!"

THE LION AND THE UNICORN

The Lion and the Unicorn were fighting for the crown,
The Lion beat the Unicorn all around the town.
Some gave them white bread, and some gave them brown,
Some gave them plum-cake, and sent them out of town.

THE MERCHANTS OF LONDON

Hey diddle dinkety poppety pet,
The merchants of London they wear scarlet,
Silk in the collar and gold in the hem,
So merrily march the merchant men.

I HAD A LITTLE HUSBAND

I had a little husband no bigger than my thumb,
I put him in a pint pot, and there I bid him drum,
I bought a little handkerchief to wipe his little nose,
And a pair of little garters to tie his little hose.

TO BABYLON

How many miles is it to Babylon?--
    Threescore miles and ten.
Can I get there by candle-light?--
    Yes, and back again.
If your heels are nimble and light,
You may get there by candle-light.

I'LL TELL YOU A STORY

  I'll tell you a story
  About Jack-a-Nory:
And now my story's begun.
  I'll tell you another
  About his brother:
And now my story is done.

A STRANGE OLD WOMAN

There was an old woman, and what do you think?
She lived upon nothing but victuals and drink;
Victuals and drink were the chief of her diet,
And yet this old woman could never be quiet.

SLEEP, BABY, SLEEP

  Sleep, baby, sleep,
Our cottage vale is deep:
The little lamb is on the green,
With woolly fleece so soft and clean--
  Sleep, baby, sleep.
  Sleep, baby, sleep,
Down where the woodbines creep;
Be always like the lamb so mild,
A kind, and sweet, and gentle child.
  Sleep, baby, sleep.

CRY, BABY

Cry, baby, cry,
Put your finger in your eye,
And tell your mother it wasn't I.

BAA, BAA, BLACK SHEEP

Baa, baa, black sheep,
Have you any wool?
Yes, marry, have I,
Three bags full;

One for my master,
One for my dame,
But none for the little boy
Who cries in the lane.

LITTLE FRED

When little Fred went to bed,
  He always said his prayers;

He kissed mamma, and then papa,
  And straightway went upstairs.

THE CAT AND THE FIDDLE

    Hey, diddle, diddle!
    The cat and the fiddle,
The cow jumped over the moon;
    The little dog laughed
    To see such sport,
And the dish ran away with the spoon.

DOCTOR FELL

I do not like thee, Doctor Fell;
The reason why I cannot tell;
But this I know, and know full well,
I do not like thee, Doctor Fell!

A COUNTING-OUT RHYME

Hickery, dickery, 6 and 7,
Alabone, Crackabone, 10 and 11,
Spin, spun, muskidun,
Twiddle 'em, twaddle 'em, 21.

JACK AND HIS FIDDLE

"Jacky, come and give me thy fiddle,
  If ever thou mean to thrive."
"Nay, I'll not give my fiddle
  To any man alive.

"If I should give my fiddle,
  They'll think that I've gone mad;
For many a joyous day
  My fiddle and I have had."

BUTTONS

  Buttons, a farthing a pair!
Come, who will buy them of me?
They're round and sound and pretty,
And fit for girls of the city.
Come, who will buy them of me?
  Buttons, a farthing a pair!

HOT BOILED BEANS

Ladies and gentlemen come to supper--
Hot boiled beans and very good butter.

LITTLE PUSSY

I like little Pussy,
  Her coat is so warm,

And if I don't hurt her
  She'll do me no harm;

So I'll not pull her tail,
  Nor drive her away,

But Pussy and I
  Very gently will play.

SING A SONG OF SIXPENCE

Sing a song of sixpence,
   A pocket full of rye;
Four-and-twenty blackbirds
   Baked in a pie!

When the pie was opened
   The birds began to sing;
Was not that a dainty dish
   To set before the king?

The king was in his counting-house,
   Counting out his money;
The queen was in the parlor,
   Eating bread and honey.

The maid was in the garden,
   Hanging out the clothes;
When down came a blackbird
   And snapped off her nose.

TOMMY TITTLEMOUSE

Little Tommy Tittlemouse
Lived in a little house;
He caught fishes
In other men's ditches.

THE DERBY RAM

As I was going to Derby all on a market-day,
I met the finest ram, sir, that ever was fed upon hay;
  Upon hay, upon hay, upon hay;
I met the finest ram, sir, that ever was fed upon hay.
This ram was fat behind, sir; this ram was fat before;
This ram was ten yards round, sir; indeed, he was no more;
  No more, no more, no more;
This ram was ten yards round, sir; indeed, he was no more.
The horns that grew on his head, sir, they were so wondrous high,
As I've been plainly told, sir, they reached up to the sky.
  The sky, the sky, the sky;
As I've been plainly told, sir, they reached up to the sky.
The tail that grew from his back, sir, was six yards and an ell;
And it was sent to Derby to toll the market bell;
  The bell, the bell, the bell;
And it was sent to Derby to toll the market bell.

THE HOBBY-HORSE

I had a little hobby-horse,
    And it was dapple gray;
Its head was made of pea-straw,
    Its tail was made of hay.

I sold it to an old woman
    For a copper groat;
And I'll not sing my song again
    Without another coat.

THE MULBERRY BUSH

Here we go round the mulberry bush,
The mulberry bush, the mulberry bush,
Here we go round the mulberry bush.
On a cold and frosty morning.

This is the way we wash our hands,
Wash our hands, wash our hands,
This is the way we wash our hands,
On a cold and frosty morning.

This is the way we wash our clothes.
Wash our clothes, wash our clothes,
This is the way we wash our clothes,
On a cold and frosty morning.

This is the way we go to school,
Go to school, go to school,
This is the way we go to school,
On a cold and frosty morning.

This is the way we come out of school,
Come out of school, come out of school,
This is the way we come out of school,
On a cold and frosty morning.

YOUNG LAMBS TO SELL

If I'd as much money as I could tell,
I never would cry young lambs to sell;
Young lambs to sell, young lambs to sell;
I never would cry young lambs to sell.

BOY AND THE SPARROW

A little cock-sparrow sat on a green tree,
And he chirruped, he chirruped, so merry was he;
A naughty boy came with his wee bow and arrow,
Determined to shoot this little cock-sparrow.

"This little cock-sparrow shall make me a stew,
And his giblets shall make me a little pie, too."
"Oh, no," says the sparrow "I won't make a stew."
So he flapped his wings and away he flew.

OLD WOMAN, OLD WOMAN

There was an old woman tossed in a basket,
  Seventeen times as high as the moon;
But where she was going no mortal could tell,
  For under her arm she carried a broom.

"Old woman, old woman, old woman," said I,
  "Whither, oh whither, oh whither so high?"
"To sweep the cobwebs from the sky;
  And I'll be with you by-and-by."

THE FIRST OF MAY

The fair maid who, the first of May,
Goes to the fields at break of day,
And washes in dew from the hawthorn-tree,
Will ever after handsome be.

SULKY SUE

Here's Sulky Sue,
What shall we do?
Turn her face to the wall
Till she comes to.

THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT

This is the house that Jack built.
This is the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the man all tattered and torn,
That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the priest all shaven and shorn,
That married the man all tattered and torn,
That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the cock that crowed in the morn,
That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
That married the man all tattered and torn,
That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

This is the farmer sowing the corn,
That kept the cock that crowed in the morn,
That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
That married the man all tattered and torn,
That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog,
That worried the cat,
That killed the rat,
That ate the malt
That lay in the house that Jack built.

SATURDAY, SUNDAY

On Saturday night
    Shall be all my care
To powder my locks
    And curl my hair.

On Sunday morning
    My love will come in.
When he will marry me
    With a gold ring.

LITTLE JENNY WREN

Little Jenny Wren fell sick,
    Upon a time;
In came Robin Redbreast
    And brought her cake and wine.

"Eat well of my cake, Jenny,
    Drink well of my wine."
"Thank you, Robin, kindly,
    You shall be mine."

Jenny she got well,
    And stood upon her feet,
And told Robin plainly
    She loved him not a bit.

Robin being angry,
    Hopped upon a twig,
Saying, "Out upon you! Fie upon you!
    Bold-faced jig!"

THE OLD WOMAN AND THE PEDLAR

There was an old woman, as I've heard tell,
She went to market her eggs for to sell;
She went to market all on a market-day,
And she fell asleep on the King's highway.

There came by a pedlar whose name was Stout,
He cut her petticoats all round about;
He cut her petticoats up to the knees,
Which made the old woman to shiver and freeze.

When the little old woman first did wake,
She began to shiver and she began to shake;
She began to wonder and she began to cry,
"Lauk a mercy on me, this can't be I!

"But if it be I, as I hope it be,
I've a little dog at home, and he'll know me;
If it be I, he'll wag his little tail,
And if it be not I, he'll loudly bark and wail."

Home went the little woman all in the dark;
Up got the little dog, and he began to bark;
He began to bark, so she began to cry,
"Lauk a mercy on me, this is none of I!"

BOBBY SNOOKS

Little Bobby Snooks was fond of his books,
  And loved by his usher and master;
But naughty Jack Spry, he got a black eye,
  And carries his nose in a plaster.

THE LITTLE MOPPET

    I had a little moppet,
    I put it in my pocket,
And fed it with corn and hay.
    There came a proud beggar.
    And swore he should have her;
And stole my little moppet away.

I SAW A SHIP A-SAILING

I saw a ship a-sailing,
A-sailing on the sea;
And, oh! it was all laden
With pretty things for thee!

There were comfits in the cabin,
And apples in the hold;
The sails were made of silk,
And the masts were made of gold.

The four-and-twenty sailors
That stood between the decks,
Were four-and-twenty white mice
With chains about their necks.

The captain was a duck,
With a packet on his back;
And when the ship began to move,
The captain said, "Quack! Quack!"

A WALNUT

As soft as silk, as white as milk,
As bitter as gall, a strong wall,
And a green coat covers me all.

THE MAN IN THE MOON

The Man in the Moon came tumbling down,
  And asked the way to Norwich;
He went by the south, and burnt his mouth
  With eating cold pease porridge.

ONE, HE LOVES

One, he loves; two, he loves;
Three, he loves, they say;
Four, he loves with all his heart;
Five, he casts away.
Six, he loves; seven, she loves;
Eight, they both love.
Nine, he comes; ten, he tarries;
Eleven, he courts; twelve, he marries.

BAT, BAT

    Bat, bat,
    Come under my hat,
And I'll give you a slice of bacon;
    And when I bake
    I'll give you a cake
If I am not mistaken.

HARK! HARK!

Hark, hark! the dogs do bark!
  Beggars are coming to town:
Some in jags, and some in rags,
  And some in velvet gown.

THE HART

The hart he loves the high wood,
  The hare she loves the hill;
The Knight he loves his bright sword,
  The Lady--loves her will.

MY LOVE

Saw ye aught of my love a-coming from the market?
  A peck of meal upon her back,
  A babby in her basket;
Saw ye aught of my love a-coming from the market?

THE MAN OF BOMBAY

There was a fat man of Bombay,
Who was smoking one sunshiny day;
    When a bird called a snipe
    Flew away with his pipe,
Which vexed the fat man of Bombay.

POOR OLD ROBINSON CRUSOE!

Poor old Robinson Crusoe!
Poor old Robinson Crusoe!
   They made him a coat
   Of an old Nanny goat.
I wonder why they should do so!
   With a ring-a-ting-tang,
   And a ring-a-ting-tang,
Poor old Robinson Crusoe!

A SIEVE

A riddle, a riddle, as I suppose,
A hundred eyes and never a nose!

MY MAID MARY

My maid Mary she minds the dairy,
  While I go a-hoeing and mowing each morn;
Gaily run the reel and the little spinning wheel,
  While I am singing and mowing my corn.

A DIFFICULT RHYME

What is the rhyme for porringer?
The king he had a daughter fair,
And gave the Prince of Orange her.

PRETTY JOHN WATTS

  Pretty John Watts,
  We are troubled with rats.
Will you drive them out of the house?
  We have mice, too, in plenty,
  That feast in the pantry,
  But let them stay
  And nibble away,
What harm in a little brown mouse?

GOOD ADVICE

Come when you're called,
  Do what you're bid,
Shut the door after you,
  And never be chid.

I LOVE SIXPENCE

I love sixpence, a jolly, jolly sixpence,
  I love sixpence as my life;
I spent a penny of it, I spent a penny of it,
  I took a penny home to my wife.

Oh, my little fourpence, a jolly, jolly fourpence,
  I love fourpence as my life;
I spent twopence of it, I spent twopence of it,
  And I took twopence home to my wife.

BYE, BABY BUNTING

Bye, baby bunting,
Father's gone a-hunting,
Mother's gone a-milking,
Sister's gone a-silking,
And brother's gone to buy a skin
To wrap the baby bunting in.

TOM, TOM, THE PIPER'S SON

Tom, Tom, the piper's son,
Stole a pig, and away he run,
  The pig was eat,
  And Tom was beat,
And Tom ran crying down the street.

COMICAL FOLK

    In a cottage in Fife
    Lived a man and his wife
Who, believe me, were comical folk;
    For, to people's surprise,
    They both saw with their eyes,
And their tongues moved whenever they spoke!

    When they were asleep,
    I'm told, that to keep
Their eyes open they could not contrive;
    They both walked on their feet,
    And 'twas thought what they eat
Helped, with drinking, to keep them alive!

COCK-CROW

Cocks crow in the morn
    To tell us to rise,
And he who lies late
    Will never be wise;

For early to bed
    And early to rise,
Is the way to be healthy
    And wealthy and wise.

TOMMY SNOOKS

As Tommy Snooks and Bessy Brooks
  Were walking out one Sunday,
Says Tommy Snooks to Bessy Brooks,
  "Wilt marry me on Monday?"

THE THREE SONS

There was an old woman had three sons,
Jerry and James and John,
Jerry was hanged, James was drowned,
John was lost and never was found;
And there was an end of her three sons,
Jerry and James and John!

THE BLACKSMITH

"Robert Barnes, my fellow fine,
Can you shoe this horse of mine?"
"Yes, good sir, that I can,
As well as any other man;
There's a nail, and there's a prod,
Now, good sir, your horse is shod."

TWO GRAY KITS

  The two gray kits,
And the gray kits' mother,
  All went over
The bridge together.

The bridge broke down,
  They all fell in;
"May the rats go with you,"
  Says Tom Bolin.

ONE, TWO, BUCKLE MY SHOE

One, two,
Buckle my shoe;
Three, four,
Knock at the door;
Five, six,
Pick up sticks;
Seven, eight,
Lay them straight;
Nine, ten,
A good, fat hen;
Eleven, twelve,
Dig and delve;
Thirteen, fourteen,
Maids a-courting;
Fifteen, sixteen,
Maids in the kitchen;
Seventeen, eighteen,
Maids a-waiting;
Nineteen, twenty,
My plate's empty.

COCK-A-DOODLE-DO!

Cock-a-doodle-do!
My dame has lost her shoe,
My master's lost his fiddle-stick
And knows not what to do.

Cock-a-doodle-do!
What is my dame to do?
Till master finds his fiddle-stick,
She'll dance without her shoe.

PAIRS OR PEARS

Twelve pairs hanging high,
Twelve knights riding by,
Each knight took a pear,
And yet left a dozen there.

BELLEISLE

At the siege of Belleisle
I was there all the while,
All the while, all the while,
At the siege of Belleisle.

OLD KING COLE

    Old King Cole
    Was a merry old soul,
And a merry old soul was he;
    He called for his pipe,
    And he called for his bowl,
And he called for his fiddlers three!
And every fiddler, he had a fine fiddle,
    And a very fine fiddle had he.
"Twee tweedle dee, tweedle dee," went the fiddlers.
    Oh, there's none so rare
    As can compare
With King Cole and his fiddlers three.

SEE, SEE

See, see! What shall I see?
A horse's head where his tail should be.

DAPPLE-GRAY

I had a little pony,
    His name was Dapple-Gray,
I lent him to a lady,
    To ride a mile away.
She whipped him, she slashed him,
    She rode him through the mire;
I would not lend my pony now
    For all the lady's hire.

A WELL

As round as an apple, as deep as a cup,
And all the king's horses can't fill it up.

COFFEE AND TEA

Molly, my sister and I fell out,
And what do you think it was all about?
She loved coffee and I loved tea,
And that was the reason we couldn't agree.

PUSSY-CAT MEW

Pussy-cat Mew jumped over a coal,
And in her best petticoat burnt a great hole.
Poor Pussy's weeping, she'll have no more milk
Until her best petticoat's mended with silk.

THE LITTLE GIRL WITH A CURL

There was a little girl who had a little curl
Right in the middle of her forehead;
When she was good, she was very, very good,
And when she was bad she was horrid.

DREAMS

Friday night's dream, on Saturday told,
Is sure to come true, be it never so old.

A COCK AND BULL STORY

The cock's on the housetop blowing his horn;
The bull's in the barn a-threshing of corn;
The maids in the meadows are making of hay;
The ducks in the river are swimming away.

FOR BABY

You shall have an apple,
YOU shall have a plum,
You shall have a rattle,
When papa comes home.

MYSELF

As I walked by myself,
And talked to myself,
  Myself said unto me:
"Look to thyself,
Take care of thyself,
  For nobody cares for thee."

I answered myself,
And said to myself
  In the selfsame repartee:
"Look to thyself,
Or not look to thyself,
  The selfsame thing will be."

OVER THE WATER

Over the water, and over the sea,
And over the water to Charley,
I'll have none of your nasty beef,
Nor I'll have none of your barley;
But I'll have some of your very best flour
To make a white cake for my Charley.

CANDLE-SAVING

To make your candles last for aye,
You wives and maids give ear-O!
To put them out's the only way,
Says honest John Boldero.

FEARS AND TEARS

Tommy's tears and Mary's fears
Will make them old before their years.

THE KILKENNY CATS

There were once two cats of Kilkenny.
Each thought there was one cat too many;
So they fought and they fit,
And they scratched and they bit,
  Till, excepting their nails,
  And the tips of their tails,
Instead of two cats, there weren't any.

OLD GRIMES

Old Grimes is dead, that good old man,
     We ne'er shall see him more;
He used to wear a long brown coat
     All buttoned down before.

A WEEK OF BIRTHDAYS

Monday's child is fair of face,
Tuesday's child is full of grace,
Wednesday's child is full of woe,
Thursday's child has far to go,
Friday's child is loving and giving,
Saturday's child works hard for its living,
But the child that's born on the Sabbath day
Is bonny and blithe, and good and gay.

A CHIMNEY

Black within and red without;
Four corners round about.

LADYBIRD

Ladybird, ladybird, fly away home!
Your house is on fire, your children all gone,
All but one, and her name is Ann,
And she crept under the pudding pan.

THE MAN WHO HAD NAUGHT

There was a man and he had naught,
    And robbers came to rob him;
He crept up to the chimney pot,
    And then they thought they had him.

But he got down on t'other side,
    And then they could not find him;
He ran fourteen miles in fifteen days,
    And never looked behind him.

THE TAILORS AND THE SNAIL

Four and Twenty tailors
    Went to kill a snail;
The best man among them
    Durst not touch her tail;
She put out her horns
    Like a little Kyloe cow.
Run, tailors, run, or
    She'll kill you all e'en now.

AROUND THE GREEN GRAVEL

Around the green gravel the grass grows green,
And all the pretty maids are plain to be seen;
Wash them with milk, and clothe them with silk,
And write their names with a pen and ink.

INTERY, MINTERY

Intery, mintery, cutery corn,
Apple seed and apple thorn;
Wire, brier, limber-lock,
Five geese in a flock,
Sit and sing by a spring,
O-u-t, and in again.

CAESAR'S SONG

  Bow-wow-wow!
Whose dog art thou?
Little Tom Tinker's dog,
  Bow-wow-wow!

AS I WAS GOING ALONG

As I was going along, along,
A-singing a comical song, song, song,
The lane that I went was so long, long, long,
And the song that I sang was so long, long, long,
And so I went singing along.

HECTOR PROTECTOR

Hector Protector was dressed all in green;
Hector Protector was sent to the Queen.
The Queen did not like him,
No more did the King;
So Hector Protector was sent back again.

BILLY, BILLY

"Billy, Billy, come and play,
While the sun shines bright as day."

"Yes, my Polly, so I will,
For I love to please you still."

"Billy, Billy, have you seen
Sam and Betsy on the green?"

"Yes, my Poll, I saw them pass,
Skipping o'er the new-mown grass."

"Billy, Billy, come along,
And I will sing a pretty song."

ROCK-A-BYE, BABY

Rock-a-bye, baby, thy cradle is green;
Father's a nobleman, mother's a queen;
And Betty's a lady, and wears a gold ring;
And Johnny's a drummer, and drums for the king.

THE MAN IN THE WILDERNESS

The man in the wilderness
    Asked me
How many strawberries
    Grew in the sea.
I answered him
    As I thought good,
As many as red herrings
    Grew in the wood.

LITTLE JACK HORNER

Little Jack Horner
Sat in the corner,
    Eating of Christmas pie:
He put in his thumb,
And pulled out a plum,
    And said, "What a good boy am I!"

THE BIRD SCARER

Away, birds, away!
Take a little and leave a little,
And do not come again;
For if you do,
I will shoot you through,
And there will be an end of you.

MARY, MARY, QUITE CONTRARY

Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
  How does your garden grow?
Silver bells and cockle-shells,
  And pretty maids all of a row.

BESSY BELL AND MARY GRAY

Bessy Bell and Mary Gray,
  They were two bonny lasses;
They built their house upon the lea,
  And covered it with rushes.

Bessy kept the garden gate,
  And Mary kept the pantry;
Bessy always had to wait,
  While Mary lived in plenty.

NEEDLES AND PINS

Needles and pins, needles and pins,
When a man marries his trouble begins.

PUSSY-CAT AND THE DUMPLINGS

Pussy-cat ate the dumplings, the dumplings,
    Pussy-cat ate the dumplings.
Mamma stood by, and cried, "Oh, fie!
    Why did you eat the dumplings?"

DANCE, THUMBKIN DANCE

Dance, Thumbkin, dance;
      (_keep the thumb in motion_
Dance, ye merrymen, everyone.
      (_all the fingers in motion_
For Thumbkin, he can dance alone,
      (_the thumb alone moving_
Thumbkin, he can dance alone.
      (_the thumb alone moving_
Dance, Foreman, dance,
      (_the first finger moving_
Dance, ye merrymen, everyone.
      (_all moving_
But Foreman, he can dance alone,
      (_the first finger moving_
Foreman, he can dance alone.
      (_the first finger moving_
Dance, Longman, dance,
      (_the second finger moving_
Dance, ye merrymen, everyone.
      (_all moving_
For Longman, he can dance alone,
      (_the second finger moving_
Longman, he can dance alone.
      (_the second finger moving_
Dance, Ringman, dance,
      (_the third finger moving_
Dance, ye merrymen, dance.
      (_all moving_
But Ringman cannot dance alone,
      (_the third finger moving_
Ringman, he cannot dance alone.
      (_the third finger moving_
Dance, Littleman, dance,
      (_the fourth finger moving_
Dance, ye merrymen, dance.
      (_all moving_
But Littleman, he can dance alone,
      (_the fourth finger moving_
Littleman, he can dance alone.
      (_the fourth finger moving_

MARY'S CANARY

Mary had a pretty bird,
  Feathers bright and yellow,
Slender legs--upon my word
  He was a pretty fellow!

The sweetest note he always sung,
  Which much delighted Mary.
She often, where the cage was hung,
  Sat hearing her canary.

THE LITTLE BIRD

Once I saw a little bird
    Come hop, hop, hop;
So I cried, "Little bird,
    Will you stop, stop, stop?"

And was going to the window
    To say, "How do you do?"
But he shook his little tail,
    And far away he flew.

BIRDS OF A FEATHER

Birds of a feather flock together,
    And so will pigs and swine;
Rats and mice will have their choice,
    And so will I have mine.

THE DUSTY MILLER

Margaret wrote a letter,
Sealed it with her finger,
Threw it in the dam
For the dusty miller.
Dusty was his coat,
Dusty was the siller,
Dusty was the kiss
I'd from the dusty miller.
If I had my pockets
Full of gold and siller,
I would give it all
To my dusty miller.

A STAR

Higher than a house, higher than a tree.
Oh! whatever can that be?

THE GREEDY MAN

The greedy man is he who sits
    And bites bits out of plates,
Or else takes up an almanac
    And gobbles all the dates.

THE TEN O'CLOCK SCHOLAR

A diller, a dollar, a ten o'clock scholar!
    What makes you come so soon?
You used to come at ten o'clock,
    But now you come at noon.

COCK-A-DOODLE-DO

Oh, my pretty cock, oh, my handsome cock,
  I pray you, do not crow before day,
And your comb shall be made of the very beaten gold,
  And your wings of the silver so gray.

AN ICICLE

    Lives in winter,
    Dies in summer,
And grows with its roots upward!

A SHIP'S NAIL

    Over the water,
    And under the water,
And always with its head down.

THE OLD WOMAN OF LEEDS

There was an old woman of Leeds,
Who spent all her time in good deeds;
    She worked for the poor
    Till her fingers were sore,
This pious old woman of Leeds!

THE BOY IN THE BARN

A little boy went into a barn,
  And lay down on some hay.
An owl came out, and flew about,
  And the little boy ran away.

SUNSHINE

Hick-a-more, Hack-a-more,
On the King's kitchen door,
All the King's horses,
And all the King's men,
Couldn't drive Hick-a-more, Hack-a-more,
Off the King's kitchen door.

WILLY, WILLY

Willy, Willy Wilkin
Kissed the maids a-milking,
    Fa, la, la!
And with his merry daffing
He set them all a-laughing,
    Ha, ha, ha!

TONGS

Long legs, crooked thighs,
Little head, and no eyes.

JACK JINGLE

Little Jack Jingle, He used to live single;
But when he got tired of this kind of life,
He left off being single and lived with his wife.
Now what do you think of little Jack Jingle?
Before he was married he used to live single.

THE QUARREL

My little old man and I fell out;
I'll tell you what 'twas all about,--
I had money and he had none,
And that's the way the noise begun.

THE PUMPKIN-EATER

Peter, Peter, pumpkin-eater,
Had a wife and couldn't keep her;
He put her in a pumpkin shell,
And there he kept her very well.

SHOEING

  Shoe the colt,
  Shoe the colt,
Shoe the wild mare;
  Here a nail,
  There a nail,
Yet she goes bare.

BETTY BLUE

    Little Betty Blue
    Lost her holiday shoe;
What shall little Betty do?
    Give her another
    To match the other
And then she'll walk upon two.

THAT'S ALL

There was an old woman sat spinning,
And that's the first beginning;

She had a calf,
And that's half;

She took it by the tail,
And threw it over the wall,
And that's all!

BEDTIME

The Man in the Moon looked out of the moon,
  Looked out of the moon and said,
"'Tis time for all children, on the earth
  To think about getting to bed!"

DANCE, LITTLE BABY

Dance, little Baby, dance up high!
Never mind, Baby, Mother is by.
Crow and caper, caper and crow,
There, little Baby, there you go!
Up to the ceiling, down to the ground,
Backwards and forwards, round and round;
Dance, little Baby and Mother will sing,
With the merry coral, ding, ding, ding!

MY LITTLE MAID

High diddle doubt, my candle's out
  My little maid is not at home;
Saddle my hog and bridle my dog,
  And fetch my little maid home.

FOR WANT OF A NAIL

For want of a nail, the shoe was lost;
For want of the shoe, the horse was lost;
For want of the horse, the rider was lost;
For want of the rider, the battle was lost;
For want of the battle, the kingdom was lost,
And all for the want of a horseshoe nail.

PEASE PORRIDGE

Pease porridge hot,
  Pease porridge cold,
Pease porridge in the pot,
  Nine days old.
Some like it hot,
  Some like it cold,
Some like it in the pot,
  Nine days old.

RING A RING O' ROSES

Ring a ring o' roses,
A pocketful of posies.
Tisha! Tisha!
We all fall down.

THE CROOKED SIXPENCE

There was a crooked man, and he went a crooked mile,
He found a crooked sixpence beside a crooked stile;
He bought a crooked cat, which caught a crooked mouse,
And they all lived together in a little crooked house.

THIS IS THE WAY

This is the way the ladies ride,
    Tri, tre, tre, tree,
    Tri, tre, tre, tree!
This is the way the ladies ride,
    Tri, tre, tre, tre, tri-tre-tre-tree!

This is the way the gentlemen ride,
    Gallop-a-trot,
    Gallop-a-trot!
This is the way the gentlemen ride,
    Gallop-a-gallop-a-trot!

This is the way the farmers ride,
    Hobbledy-hoy,
    Hobbledy-hoy!
This is the way the farmers ride,
    Hobbledy-hobbledy-hoy!

DUCKS AND DRAKES

  A duck and a drake,
  And a halfpenny cake,
With a penny to pay the old baker.
  A hop and a scotch
  Is another notch,
Slitherum, slatherum, take her.

THE DONKEY

Donkey, donkey, old and gray,
Ope your mouth and gently bray;
Lift your ears and blow your horn,
To wake the world this sleepy morn.

IF

If all the world were apple pie,
  And all the sea were ink,
And all the trees were bread and cheese,
  What should we have for drink?

THE BELLS

"You owe me five shillings,"
Say the bells of St. Helen's.
"When will you pay me?"
Say the bells of Old Bailey.
"When I grow rich,"
Say the bells of Shoreditch.
"When will that be?"
Say the bells of Stepney.
"I do not know,"
Says the great Bell of Bow.
"Two sticks in an apple,"
Ring the bells of Whitechapel.
"Halfpence and farthings,"
Say the bells of St. Martin's.
"Kettles and pans,"
Say the bells of St. Ann's.
"Brickbats and tiles,"
Say the bells of St. Giles.
"Old shoes and slippers,"
Say the bells of St. Peter's.
"Pokers and tongs,"
Say the bells of St. John's.

LITTLE GIRL AND QUEEN

"Little girl, little girl, where have you been?"
"Gathering roses to give to the Queen."
"Little girl, little girl, what gave she you?"
"She gave me a diamond as big as my shoe."

THE KING OF FRANCE

The King of France went up the hill,
    With twenty thousand men;
The King of France came down the hill,
    And ne'er went up again.

PETER PIPER

Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers;
A peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked.
If Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers,
Where's the peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked?

ONE TO TEN

1, 2, 3, 4, 5!
I caught a hare alive;
6, 7, 8, 9, 10!
I let her go again.

AN EQUAL

Read my riddle, I pray.
What God never sees,
What the king seldom sees,
What we see every day.

THE TARTS

    The Queen of Hearts,
    She made some tarts,
All on a summer's day;
    The Knave of Hearts,
    He stole the tarts,
And took them clean away.

    The King of Hearts
    Called for the tarts,
And beat the Knave full sore;
    The Knave of Hearts
    Brought back the tarts,
And vowed he'd steal no more.

COME, LET'S TO BED

"To bed! To bed!"
    Says Sleepy-head;
"Tarry awhile," says Slow;
"Put on the pan,"
    Says Greedy Nan;
    "We'll sup before we go."

LITTLE MAID

"Little maid, pretty maid, whither goest thou?"
"Down in the forest to milk my cow."
"Shall I go with thee?" "No, not now;
When I send for thee, then come thou."

WHAT ARE LITTLE BOYS MADE OF?

What are little boys made of, made of?
What are little boys made of?
"Snaps and snails, and puppy-dogs' tails;
And that's what little boys are made of."

What are little girls made of, made of?
What are little girls made of?
"Sugar and spice, and all that's nice;
And that's what little girls are made of."

BANDY LEGS

As I was going to sell my eggs
I met a man with bandy legs,
Bandy legs and crooked toes;
I tripped up his heels, and he fell on his nose.

THE GIRL AND THE BIRDS

When I was a little girl, about seven years old,
I hadn't got a petticoat, to cover me from the cold.
So I went into Darlington, that pretty little town,
And there I bought a petticoat, a cloak, and a gown.
I went into the woods and built me a kirk,
And all the birds of the air, they helped me to work.
The hawk with his long claws pulled down the stone,
The dove with her rough bill brought me them home.
The parrot was the clergyman, the peacock was the clerk,
The bullfinch played the organ,--we made merry work.

A PIG

As I went to Bonner,
    I met a pig
    Without a wig
Upon my word and honor.

JENNY WREN

As little Jenny Wren
    Was sitting by her shed.
She waggled with her tail,
    And nodded with her head.
She waggled with her tail,
    And nodded with her head,
As little Jenny Wren
    Was sitting by the shed.

LITTLE TOM TUCKER

Little Tom Tucker
    Sings for his supper.
What shall he eat?
    White bread and butter.
How will he cut it
    Without e'er a knife?
How will he be married
    Without e'er a wife?

WHERE ARE YOU GOING, MY PRETTY MAID

"Where are you going, my pretty maid?"
"I'm going a-milking, sir," she said.
"May I go with you, my pretty maid?"
"You're kindly welcome, sir," she said.
"What is your father, my pretty maid?"
"My father's a farmer, sir," she said.
"What is your fortune, my pretty maid?"
"My face is my fortune, sir," she said.
"Then I can't marry you, my pretty maid."
"Nobody asked you, sir," she said.

THE OLD WOMAN OF GLOUCESTER

There was an old woman of Gloucester,
Whose parrot two guineas it cost her,
    But its tongue never ceasing,
    Was vastly displeasing
To the talkative woman of Gloucester.

MULTIPLICATION IS VEXATION

Multiplication is vexation,
    Division is as bad;
The Rule of Three doth puzzle me,
    And Practice drives me mad.

LITTLE KING BOGGEN

Little King Boggen, he built a fine hall,
Pie-crust and pastry-crust, that was the wall;
The windows were made of black puddings and white,
And slated with pan-cakes,--you ne'er saw the like!

WHISTLE

"Whistle, daughter, whistle;
    Whistle, daughter dear."
"I cannot whistle, mammy,
    I cannot whistle clear."
"Whistle, daughter, whistle;
    Whistle for a pound."
"I cannot whistle, mammy,
    I cannot make a sound."

BELL HORSES

Bell horses, bell horses, what time of day?
One o'clock, two o'clock, three and away.

TAFFY

Taffy was a Welshman, Taffy was a thief,
Taffy came to my house and stole a piece of beef;
I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was not home;
Taffy came to my house and stole a marrow-bone.

I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was not in;
Taffy came to my house and stole a silver pin;
I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was in bed,
I took up the marrow-bone and flung it at his head.

THE ROBIN

The north wind doth blow,
And we shall have snow,
And what will poor robin do then,
                    Poor thing?

He'll sit in a barn,
And keep himself warm,
And hide his head under his wing,
                    Poor thing!

THE OLD WOMAN OF HARROW

There was an old woman of Harrow,
Who visited in a wheelbarrow;
   And her servant before,
   Knocked loud at each door,
To announce the old woman of Harrow.

YOUNG ROGER AND DOLLY

Young Roger came tapping at Dolly's window,
    Thumpaty, thumpaty, thump!

He asked for admittance; she answered him "No!"
    Frumpaty, frumpaty, frump!

"No, no, Roger, no! as you came you may go!"
    Stumpaty, stumpaty, stump!

THE PIPER AND HIS COW

There was a piper had a cow,
    And he had naught to give her;
He pulled out his pipes and played her a tune,
    And bade the cow consider.

The cow considered very well,
    And gave the piper a penny,
And bade him play the other tune,
    "Corn rigs are bonny."

THE MAN OF DERBY

A little old man of Derby,
How do you think he served me?
He took away my bread and cheese,
And that is how he served me.

THE COACHMAN

Up at Piccadilly, oh!
    The coachman takes his stand,
And when he meets a pretty girl
    He takes her by the hand;
Whip away forever, oh!
    Drive away so clever, oh!
All the way to Bristol, oh!
    He drives her four-in-hand.

THERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN

There was an old woman who lived in a shoe.
She had so many children she didn't know what to do.
She gave them some broth without any bread.
She whipped them all soundly and put them to bed.

A THORN

I went to the wood and got it;
I sat me down to look for it
And brought it home because I couldn't find it.

THE OLD WOMAN OF SURREY

There was an old woman in Surrey,
Who was morn, noon, and night in a hurry;
    Called her husband a fool,
    Drove the children to school,
The worrying old woman of Surrey.

THE LITTLE MOUSE

I have seen you, little mouse,
Running all about the house,
Through the hole your little eye
In the wainscot peeping sly,
Hoping soon some crumbs to steal,
To make quite a hearty meal.
Look before you venture out,
See if pussy is about.
If she's gone, you'll quickly run
To the larder for some fun;
Round about the dishes creep,
Taking into each a peep,
To choose the daintiest that's there,
Spoiling things you do not care.

BOY AND GIRL

There was a little boy and a little girl
    Lived in an alley;
Says the little boy to the little girl,
    "Shall I, oh, shall I?"
Says the little girl to the little boy,
    "What shall we do?"
Says the little boy to the little girl,
    "I will kiss you."

WHEN

When I was a bachelor
    I lived by myself;
And all the bread and cheese I got
    I laid up on the shelf.

The rats and the mice
    They made such a strife,
I was forced to go to London
    To buy me a wife.

The streets were so bad,
    And the lanes were so narrow,
I was forced to bring my wife home
    In a wheelbarrow.

The wheelbarrow broke,
    And my wife had a fall;
Down came wheelbarrow,
    Little wife and all.

SING, SING

Sing, sing, what shall I sing?
Cat's run away with the pudding-string!
Do, do, what shall I do?
The cat has bitten it quite in two.

LONDON BRIDGE

London Bridge is broken down,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
London Bridge is broken down,
With a gay lady.

How shall we build it up again?
Dance over my Lady Lee;
How shall we build it up again?
With a gay lady.

Build it up with silver and gold,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Build it up with silver and gold,
With a gay lady.

Silver and gold will be stole away,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Silver and gold will be stole away,
With a gay lady.

Build it up with iron and steel,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Build it up with iron and steel,
With a gay lady.

Iron and steel will bend and bow,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Iron and steel will bend and bow,
With a gay lady.

Build it up with wood and clay,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Build it up with wood and clay,
With a gay lady.

Wood and clay will wash away,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Wood and clay will wash away,
With a gay lady.

Build it up with stone so strong,
Dance over my Lady Lee;
Huzza! 'twill last for ages long,
With a gay lady.

MARCH WINDS

March winds and April showers
Bring forth May flowers.

THE BALLOON

"What is the news of the day,
Good neighbor, I pray?"
"They say the balloon
Is gone up to the moon!"

A CHERRY

As I went through the garden gap,
Who should I meet but Dick Red-cap!
A stick in his hand, a stone in his throat,--
If you'll tell me this riddle, I'll give you a groat.

THE LOST SHOE

Doodle doodle doo,
The Princess lost her shoe:
  Her Highness hopped,--
  The fiddler stopped,
Not knowing what to do.

HOT CODLINS

There was a little woman, as I've been told,
Who was not very young, nor yet very old;
Now this little woman her living got
By selling codlins, hot, hot, hot!

SWAN

Swan, swan, over the sea;
    Swim, swan, swim!
Swan, swan, back again;
    Well swum, swan!

THREE STRAWS

Three straws on a staff
Would make a baby cry and laugh.

THE MAN OF TOBAGO

There was an old man of Tobago
Who lived on rice, gruel, and sago,
    Till much to his bliss,
    His physician said this:
"To a leg, sir, of mutton, you may go."

DING, DONG, BELL

Ding, dong, bell,
Pussy's in the well!
Who put her in?
Little Tommy Lin.

Who pulled her out?
Little Johnny Stout.
What a naughty boy was that,
To try to drown poor pussy-cat.
Who never did him any harm,
But killed the mice in his father's barn!

A SUNSHINY SHOWER

A sunshiny shower
Won't last half an hour.

THE FARMER AND THE RAVEN

A farmer went trotting upon his gray mare,
    Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
With his daughter behind him so rosy and fair,
    Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

A raven cried croak! and they all tumbled down,
    Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
The mare broke her knees, and the farmer his crown,
    Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

The mischievous raven flew laughing away,
    Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
And vowed he would serve them the same the next day,
    Lumpety, lumpety lump!

CHRISTMAS

Christmas is coming, the geese are getting fat,
Please to put a penny in an old man's hat;
If you haven't got a penny a ha'penny will do,
If you haven't got a ha'penny, God bless you.

WILLY BOY

"Willy boy, Willy boy, where are you going?
I will go with you, if that I may."
"I'm going to the meadow to see them a-mowing,
I'm going to help them to make the hay."

POLLY AND SUKEY

Polly, put the kettle on,
Polly, put the kettle on,
Polly, put the kettle on,
And let's drink tea.

Sukey, take it off again,
Sukey, take it off again,
Sukey, take it off again,
They're all gone away.

THE DEATH AND BURIAL OF POOR COCK ROBIN

Who killed Cock Robin?
"I," said the sparrow,
"With my little bow and arrow,
I killed Cock Robin."

Who saw him die?
"I," said the fly,
"With my little eye,
I saw him die."

Who caught his blood?
"I," said the fish,
"With my little dish,
I caught his blood."

Who'll make his shroud?
"I," said the beetle,
"With my thread and needle.
I'll make his shroud."

Who'll carry the torch?
"I," said the linnet,
"I'll come in a minute,
I'll carry the torch."

Who'll be the clerk?
"I," said the lark,
"If it's not in the dark,
I'll be the clerk."

Who'll dig his grave?
"I," said the owl,
"With my spade and trowel
I'll dig his grave."

Who'll be the parson?
"I," said the rook,
"With my little book,
I'll be the parson."

Who'll be chief mourner?
"I," said the dove,
"I mourn for my love,
I'll be chief mourner."

Who'll sing a psalm?
"I," said the thrush,
"As I sit in a bush.
I'll sing a psalm."

Who'll carry the coffin?
"I," said the kite,
"If it's not in the night,
I'll carry the coffin."

Who'll toll the bell?
"I," said the bull,
"Because I can pull,
I'll toll the bell."

All the birds of the air
Fell sighing and sobbing,
When they heard the bell toll
For poor Cock Robin.

THE MOUSE AND THE CLOCK

Hickory, dickory, dock!
The mouse ran up the clock;
  The clock struck one,
  And down he run,
Hickory, dickory, dock!

HOT-CROSS BUNS

    Hot-cross Buns!
    Hot-cross Buns!
One a penny, two a penny,
    Hot-cross Buns!

    Hot-cross Buns!
    Hot-cross Buns!
If ye have no daughters,
Give them to your sons.

BOBBY SHAFTOE

Bobby Shaftoe's gone to sea,
With silver buckles on his knee:
He'll come back and marry me,
    Pretty Bobby Shaftoe!
Bobby Shaftoe's fat and fair,
Combing down his yellow hair;
He's my love for evermore,
    Pretty Bobby Shaftoe.

THE BUNCH OF BLUE RIBBONS

Oh, dear, what can the matter be?
Oh, dear, what can the matter be?
Oh, dear, what can the matter be?
    Johnny's so long at the fair.

He promised he'd buy me a bunch of blue ribbons,
He promised he'd buy me a bunch of blue ribbons,
He promised he'd buy me a bunch of blue ribbons,
To tie up my bonny brown hair.

THE WOMAN OF EXETER

There dwelt an old woman at Exeter;
When visitors came it sore vexed her,
    So for fear they should eat,
    She locked up all her meat,
This stingy old woman of Exeter.

SNEEZING

If you sneeze on Monday, you sneeze for danger;
Sneeze on a Tuesday, kiss a stranger;
Sneeze on a Wednesday, sneeze for a letter;
Sneeze on a Thursday, something better.
Sneeze on a Friday, sneeze for sorrow;
Sneeze on a Saturday, joy to-morrow.

PUSSY-CAT BY THE FIRE

Pussy-cat sits by the fire;
    How can she be fair?
In walks the little dog;
    Says: "Pussy, are you there?
How do you do, Mistress Pussy?
    Mistress Pussy, how d'ye do?"
"I thank you kindly, little dog,
    I fare as well as you!"

WHEN THE SNOW IS ON THE GROUND

The little robin grieves
    When the snow is on the ground,
For the trees have no leaves,
    And no berries can be found.

The air is cold, the worms are hid;
    For robin here what can be done?
Let's strow around some crumbs of bread,
    And then he'll live till snow is gone.by Anne Celnick. (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Archive)

MOTHER GOOSE'S

NURSERY RHYMES

  A collection of
  _Alphabets, Rhymes, Tales, and Jingles_

  With Illustrations
  BY
  SIR JOHN GILBERT, R.A., JOHN TENNIEL, HARRISON WEIR,
  WALTER CRANE, W. McCONNELL, J. B. ZWECKER
  AND OTHERS

    London
    GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND SONS
    THE BROADWAY, LUDGATE
    NEW YORK: 416 BROOME STREET

CONTENTS.

                                                       _Page_

MOTHER GOOSE'S NURSERY RHYMES.

OLD MOTHER GOOSE.

    OLD Mother Goose, when
      She wanted to wander,
    Would ride through the air
      On a very fine gander.

    Mother Goose had a house,
      'Twas built in a wood,
    Where an owl at the door
      For sentinel stood.

    This is her son Jack,
      A plain-looking lad,
    He is not very good,
      Nor yet very bad.

    She sent him to market,
      A live goose he bought,
    "Here, mother," says he,
      "It will not go for nought."

    Jack's goose and her gander
      Grew very fond,
    They'd both eat together,
      Or swim in one pond.

    Jack found one fine morning
      As I have been told,
    His goose had laid him
      An egg of pure gold.

    Jack rode to his mother,
      The news for to tell,
    She called him a good boy
      And said it was well.

    Jack sold his gold egg
      To a rogue of a Jew,
    Who cheated him out of
      The half of his due.

    Then Jack went a-courting
      A lady so gay,
    As fair as the lily,
      And sweet as the May.

    The Jew and the Squire
      Came behind his back,
    And began to belabour
      The sides of poor Jack.

    And then the gold egg
      Was thrown into the sea,

    When Jack he jumped in,
      And got it back presently.

    The Jew got the goose,
      Which he vowed he would kill,
    Resolving at once
      His pockets to fill.

    Jack's mother came in,
      And caught the goose soon,
    And mounting its back,
      Flew up to the moon.

    BOYS and girls, come out to play,
    The moon does shine as bright as day,
      Leave your supper, and leave your sleep,
      And meet your playfellows in the street;
    Come with a whoop, and come with a call,
    And come with a good will, or not at all.
      Up the ladder and down the wall,
      A halfpenny loaf will serve us all.
    You find milk and I'll find flour,
    And we'll have a pudding in half an hour.

    [Illustration: A was an Archer,

    [Illustration: B was a Butcher,

    [Illustration: C was a Captain,

    [Illustration: D was a Drummer,

    [Illustration: E was an Esquire

    [Illustration: F was a Farmer,

    [Illustration: G was a Gamester,

    [Illustration: H was a Hunter,

    [Illustration: I was an Italian,

    [Illustration: J was a Joiner,

    [Illustration: K was a King,

    [Illustration: L was a Lady,

    [Illustration: M was a Miser,

    [Illustration: N was a Nobleman,

    [Illustration: O was an Organ-Boy,

    [Illustration: P a Policeman,

    [Illustration: Q was a Quaker,

    [Illustration: R was a Robber,

    [Illustration: S was a Sailor,

    [Illustration: T was a Tinker,

    [Illustration: U was an Usher,

    [Illustration: V was a Veteran,

    [Illustration: W was a Waiter,

    [Illustration: X was Expensive,

    [Illustration: Y was a Youth,

    [Illustration: Z was a Zany,

    THE sun was shining on the sea,
      Shining with all his might:
    He did his very best to make
      The billows smooth and bright--
    And this was odd, because it was
      The middle of the night.

    The moon was shining sulkily,
      Because she thought the sun
    Had got no business to be there
      After the day was done--
    "It's very rude of him," she said,
      "To come and spoil the fun!"

    The sea was wet as wet could be,
      The sands were dry as dry.
    You could not see a cloud, because
      No cloud was in the sky:
    No birds were flying overhead--
      There were no birds to fly.

    The Walrus and the Carpenter
      Were walking close at hand;
    They wept like anything to see
      Such quantities of sand:
    "If this were only cleared away,"
      They said, "it _would_ be grand!"

    "If seven maids with seven mops
      Swept it for half a year,
    Do you suppose," the Walrus said,
      "That they could get it clear?"
    "I doubt it," said the Carpenter,
      And shed a bitter tear.

    "O Oysters, come and walk with us!"
      The Walrus did beseech.
    "A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,
      Along the briny beach:
    We cannot do with more than four,
      To give a hand to each."

    The eldest Oyster looked at him,
      But never a word he said:
    The eldest Oyster winked his eye,
      And shook his heavy head--
    Meaning to say he did not choose
      To leave the oyster-bed.

    But four young Oysters hurried up,
      All eager for the treat:
    Their coats were brushed, their faces washed,
      Their shoes were clean and neat--
    And this was odd, because, you know,
      They hadn't any feet.

    Four other Oysters followed them,
      And yet another four;
    And thick and fast they came at last,
      And more, and more, and more--
    All hopping through the frothy waves,
      And scrambling to the shore.

    The Walrus and the Carpenter
      Walked on a mile or so,
    And then they rested on a rock
      Conveniently low:
    And all the little Oysters stood
      And waited in a row.

    "The time has come," the Walrus said,
      "To talk of many things:
    Of shoes--and ships--and sealing-wax--
      Of cabbages--and kings--
    And why the sea is boiling hot--
      And whether pigs have wings."

    "But wait a bit," the Oysters cried,
      "Before we have our chat;
    For some of us are out of breath,
      And all of us are fat!"
    "No hurry!" said the Carpenter.
      They thanked him much for that.

    "A loaf of bread," the Walrus said,
      "Is what we chiefly need:
    Pepper and vinegar besides
      Are very good indeed--
    Now if you're ready, Oysters dear,
      We can begin to feed."

    "But not on us!" the Oysters cried,
      Turning a little blue.
    "After such kindness, that would be
      A dismal thing to do!"
    "The night is fine," the Walrus said.
      "Do you admire the view?

    "It was so kind of you to come!
      And you are very nice!"
    The Carpenter said nothing but
      "Cut us another slice:
    I wish you were not quite so deaf--
      I've had to ask you twice!"

    "It seems a shame," the Walrus said,
      "To play them such a trick,
    After we've brought them out so far,
      And made them trot so quick!"
    The Carpenter said nothing but
      "The butter's spread too thick!"

    "I weep for you," the Walrus said:
      "I deeply sympathize."
    With sobs and tears he sorted out
      Those of the largest size,
    Holding his pocket-handkerchief
      Before his streaming eyes.

    "O Oysters," said the Carpenter,
      "You've had a pleasant run!
    Shall we be trotting home again?"
      But answer there came none--
    And this was scarcely odd, because
      They'd eaten every one.

                      --LEWIS CARROLL.

[A] By permission of the Author.

    A man went hunting at Reigate,
    And wished to jump over a high gate;
      Says the owner, "Go round,
      With your horse and your hound,
    For you never shall leap over my gate."

[Music:

    Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall,
    Humpty Dumpty had a great fall;
    All the king's horses,
    and all the king's men,

    There was an Owl lived in an oak,
      Whiskey, Whaskey, Weedle;
    And all the words he ever spoke
      Were Fiddle, Faddle, Feedle.
    A sportsman chanced to come that way,
      Whiskey, Whaskey, Weedle;
    Says he, "I'll shoot you, silly bird,
      So Fiddle, Faddle, Feedle!"

GOOD KING ARTHUR.

    WHEN good King Arthur ruled this land,
      He was a goodly King;
    He bought three pecks of barley-meal,
      To make a bag-pudding.

    A bag-pudding the King did make,
      And stuffed it well with plums,
    And in it put great lumps of fat,
      As big as my two thumbs.

    The King and Queen did eat thereof,
      And noblemen beside;
    And what they could not eat that night,
      The Queen next morning fried.

    To market, to market, to buy a fat pig,
    Home again, home again, jiggety jig.
    To market, to market, to buy a fat hog,
    Home again, home again, jiggety jog.

    Hot cross buns, hot cross buns,
    One a penny, two a penny,
      Hot cross buns.
    If your daughters don't like them,
    Give them to your sons,
    One a penny, two a penny,
      Hot cross buns.

WHO STOLE THE BIRD'S-NEST?

    TO-WHIT! to-whit! to-whee!
    Will you listen to me?
    Who stole four eggs I laid,
    And the nice nest I made?

    Not I, said the cow, moo-oo!
    Such a thing I'd never do.
    I gave you a wisp of hay,
    But did not take your nest away;
    Not I, said the cow, moo-oo!
    Such a thing I'd never do.

    Bob-o-link! Bob-o-link!
    Now, what do you think?
    Who stole a nest away
    From the plum-tree to-day?

    Not I, said the dog, bow-wow!
    I wouldn't be so mean, I vow.
    I gave some hairs the nest to make,
    But the nest I did not take;
    Not I, said the dog, bow-wow!
    I would not be so mean, I vow.

    Coo-coo! coo-coo! coo-coo!
    Let me speak a word or two:
    Who stole that pretty nest
    From little Robin Redbreast?

    Not I, said the sheep; oh, no,
    I would not treat a poor bird so;
    I gave the wool the nest to line,
    But the nest was none of mine.
    Baa! baa! said the sheep; oh, no!
    I wouldn't treat a poor bird so.

    Caw! caw! cried the crow,
    I should like to know
    What thief took away
    A bird's-nest to-day.

    Chuck! chuck! said the hen,
    Don't ask me again;
    Why, I haven't a chick
    Would do such a trick.
    We all gave her a feather,
    And she wove them together.
    I'd scorn to intrude
    On her and her brood.
    Chuck! chuck! said the hen,
    Don't ask me again.

    Chirr-a-whirr! chirr-a-whirr!
    We will make a great stir.
    Let us find out his name,
    And all cry--For shame!

    A little boy hung down his head,
    And went and hid behind the bed;
    For he stole that pretty nest
    From little Robin Redbreast;
    And he felt so full of shame
    He did not like to tell his name.

    There was a jolly miller
      Lived on the river Dee:
    He worked and sang from morn till night,
      No lark so blithe as he.
    And this the burden of his song
      For ever used to be--
      I care for nobody--no! not I,
    Since nobody cares for me.

    Dickery, dickery, dare,
    The pig flew up in the air;
    The man in brown soon brought him down,
    Dickery, dickery, dare.

    Molly, my sister, and I fell out,
    And what do you think it was about?
    She loved coffee, and I loved tea,
    And that was the reason we couldn't agree.

    Solomon Grundy,
    Born on a Monday,
    Christened on Tuesday,
    Married on Wednesday,
    Very ill on Thursday,
    Worse on Friday,
    Died on Saturday,
    Buried on Sunday.
    This is the end
    Of Solomon Grundy.

    Jack Sprat could eat no fat,
      His wife could eat no lean;
    And so betwixt them both, you see,
      They licked the platter clean.

    As I went to Bonner,
        I met a pig
        Without a wig,
    Upon my word and honour.

    Hush, baby, my doll, I pray you don't cry,
    And I'll give you some bread, and some milk by-and-by;
    Or perhaps you like custard, or, maybe, a tart,
    Then to either you are welcome, with all my heart.

    Pitty Patty Polt,
    Shoe the wild colt;
    Here a nail,
    And there a nail,
    Pitty Patty Polt.

    Brow, brow, brinkie,
    Eye, eye, winkie,
    Mouth, mouth, merry,
    Cheek, cheek, cherry,
    Chin chopper, chin chopper,
          &c.

    If you are to be a gentleman, as I suppose you'll be,
    You'll neither laugh nor smile for a tickling of the knee.

    "Where are you going to, my pretty maid?"
    "I am going a-milking, sir," she said.
    "May I go with you, my pretty maid?"
    "You're kindly welcome, sir," she said.
    "What is your father, my pretty maid?"
    "My father's a farmer, sir," she said.
    "What is your fortune, my pretty maid?"
    "My face is my fortune, sir," she said.
    "Then I won't marry you, my pretty maid."
    "Nobody asked you, sir," she said.

    The barber shaved the mason,
      And as I suppose
      Cut off his nose,
    And popped it in the basin.

OLD MOTHER HUBBARD AND HER DOG.

    OLD Mother Hubbard
    Went to the cupboard,
      To get her poor Dog a bone;
    But when she came there
    The cupboard was bare,
      And so the poor Dog had none.

    She went to the baker's
      To buy him some bread,
    But when she came back
      The poor Dog was dead.

    She went to the joiner's
      To buy him a coffin,
    But when she came back
      The poor Dog was laughing,

    She took a clean dish
      To get him some tripe,
    But when she came back
      He was smoking a pipe.

    She went to the alehouse
      To get him some beer,
    But when she came back
      The Dog sat in a chair.

    She went to the tavern
      For white wine and red,
    But when she came back
      The Dog stood on his head.

    She went to the hatter's
      To buy him a hat,
    But when she came back
      He was feeding the cat.

    She went to the barber's
      To buy him a wig,
    But when she came back
      He was dancing a jig.

    She went to the fruiterer's
      To buy him some fruit,
    But when she came back
      He was playing the flute.

    She went to the tailor's
      To buy him a coat,
    But when she came back
      He was riding a goat.

    She went to the cobbler's
      To buy him some shoes,
    But when she came back
      He was reading the news.

    She went to the sempstress
      To buy him some linen,
    But when she came back
      The Dog was a-spinning.

    She went to the hosier's
      To buy him some hose,
    But when she came back
      He was dressed in his clothes.

    The Dame made a curtsey,
      The Dog made a bow;
    The Dame said, "Your servant,"
      The Dog said, "Bow wow."

    This wonderful Dog
      Was Dame Hubbard's delight;
    He could sing, he could dance,
      He could read, he could write.

    She gave him rich dainties
      Whenever he fed,
    And erected a monument
      When he was dead.

LITTLE JACK HORNER.

    There was a monkey climbed up a tree;
    When he fell down, then down fell he.

    There was a crow sat on a stone;
    When he was gone, then there was none.

    There was an old wife did eat an apple;
    When she ate two, she had ate a couple.

    There was a horse going to the mill;
    When he went on, he didn't stand still.

    There was a butcher cut his thumb.
    When it did bleed, then blood it did run.

    There was a jockey ran a race;
    When he ran fast, he ran apace.

    There was a cobbler, clouting shoon;
    When they were mended, then they were done.

    There was a navy went into Spain;
    When it returned, it came back again.

THE WAVES ON THE SEA-SHORE.

    ROLL on, roll on, you restless waves,
      That toss about and roar;
    Why do you all run back again
      When you have reached the shore?

    Roll on, roll on, you noisy waves,
      Roll higher up the strand;
    How is it that you cannot pass
      That line of yellow sand?

    "We may not dare," the waves reply:
      "That line of yellow sand
    Is laid along the shore to bound
      The waters and the land.

    "And all should keep to time and place,
      And all should keep to rule,
    Both waves upon the sandy shore,
      And little boys at school."

THE MARRIAGE OF COCK ROBIN AND JENNY WREN.

    IT was on a merry time,
      When Jenny Wren was young,
    So neatly as she danced,
      And so sweetly as she sung,--

    Robin Redbreast lost his heart:
      He was a gallant bird;
    He doffed his hat to Jenny,
      And thus to her he said:

    "My dearest Jenny Wren,
      If you will but be mine,
    You shall dine on cherry-pie,
      And drink nice currant-wine.

    "I'll dress you like a goldfinch,
      Or like a peacock gay;
    So if you'll have me, Jenny,
      Let us appoint the day."

    Jenny blushed behind her fan,
      And thus declared her mind:
    "Then let it be to-morrow, Bob,--
      I take your offer kind;

    "Cherry-pie is very good,
      So is currant-wine;
    But I'll wear my russet gown,
      And never dress too fine."

    Robin rose up early,
      At the break of day;
    He flew to Jenny Wren's house,
      To sing a roundelay.

    He met the Cock and Hen,
      And bade the Cock declare,
    This was his wedding-day
      With Jenny Wren the fair.

    The Cock then blew his horn,
      To let the neighbours know
    This was Robin's wedding-day,
      And they might see the show.

    At first came Parson Rook,
      With his spectacles and band;
    And one of Mother Hubbard's books
      He held within his hand.

    Then followed him the Lark,
      For he could sweetly sing,
    And he was to be the clerk
      At Cock Robin's wedding.

    He sang of Robin's love
      For Little Jenny Wren;
    And when he came unto the end,
      Then he began again.

    The Goldfinch came on next,
      To give away the Bride;
    The Linnet, being bridesmaid,
      Walked by Jenny's side;

    And as she was a-walking,
      Said, "Upon my word,
    I think that your Cock Robin
      Is a very pretty bird."

    The Blackbird and the Thrush,
      And charming Nightingale,
    Whose sweet "jug" sweetly echoes
      Through every grove and dale;

    The Sparrow and Tomtit,
      And many more, were there;
    All came to see the wedding
      Of Jenny Wren the fair.

    The Bullfinch walked by Robin,
      And thus to him did say,
    "Pray mark, friend Robin Redbreast,
      That Goldfinch dressed so gay:

    "What though her gay apparel
      Becomes her very well,
    Yet Jenny's modest dress and look
      Must bear away the bell."

    Then came the Bride and Bridegroom;
      Quite plainly was she dressed,
    And blushed so much, her cheeks were
      As red as Robin's breast.

    But Robin cheered her up;
      "My pretty Jen," said he,
    "We're going to be married,
      And happy we shall be."

    "Oh, then," says Parson Rook,
      "Who gives this maid away?"
    "I do," says the Goldfinch,
      "And her fortune I will pay:

    "Here's a bag of grain of many sorts,
      And other things beside:
    Now happy be the bridegroom,
      And happy be the bride!"

    "And will you have her, Robin,
      To be your wedded wife?"
    "Yes, I will," says Robin,
      "And love her all my life!"

    "And you will have him, Jenny,
      Your husband now to be?"
    "Yes, I will," says Jenny,
      "And love him heartily!"

    Then on her finger fair
      Cock Robin put the ring;
    "You're married now," says Parson Rook,
      While the Lark aloud did sing:

    "Happy be the bridegroom,
      And happy be the bride!
    And may not man, nor bird, nor beast,
      This happy pair divide!"

    The birds were asked to dine,
      Not Jenny's friends alone,
    But every pretty songster
      That had Cock Robin known.

    They had a cherry-pie,
      Besides some currant-wine,
    And every guest brought something,
      That sumptuous they might dine.

    Now they all sat or stood,
      To eat and to drink;
    And every one said what
      He happened to think.

    They each took a bumper,
      And drank to the pair,
    Cock Robin the bridegroom,
      And Jenny the fair.

    The dinner-things removed,
      They all began to sing;
    And soon they made the place
      Near a mile round to ring.

    The concert it was fine;
      And every bird tried
    Who best should sing for Robin,
      And Jenny Wren the bride.

    When in came the Cuckoo,
      And made a great rout;
    He caught hold of Jenny,
      And pulled her about.

    Cock Robin was angry,
      And so was the Sparrow,
    Who fetched in a hurry
      His bow and his arrow.

    His aim then he took,
      But he took it not right;
    His skill was not good,
      Or he shot in a fright;

    For the Cuckoo he missed,
      But Cock Robin he killed!--
    And all the birds mourned
      That his blood was so spilled.

THE DEATH AND BURIAL OF POOR COCK ROBIN.

    WHO killed Cock Robin?
      I, said the Sparrow,
      With my bow and arrow,
    I killed Cock Robin.

    This is the Sparrow,
    With his bow and arrow.

    Who saw him die?
      I, said the Fly,
      With my little eye,
    I saw him die.

    This is the little Fly
    Who saw Cock Robin die.

    Who caught his blood?
      I, said the Fish,
      With my little dish,
    I caught his blood.

    This is the Fish,
    That held the dish.

    Who'll make his shroud?
      I, said the Beetle,
      With my thread and needle,
    I'll make his shroud.

    This is the Beetle,
    With his thread and needle.

    Who'll dig his grave?
      I, said the Owl,
      With my spade and show'l,
    I'll dig his grave.

    This is the Owl,
    With his spade and show'l.

    Who'll be the Parson?
      I, said the Rook,
      With my little book,
    I'll be the Parson.

    This is the Rook,
    Reading his book.

    Who'll be the Clerk?
      I, said the Lark,
      If it's not in the dark,
    I'll be the Clerk.

    This is the Lark,
    Saying "Amen" like a clerk.

    Who'll carry him to the grave?
      I, said the Kite,
      If it's not in the night,
    I'll carry him to the grave.

    This is the Kite,
    About to take flight.

    Who'll carry the link?
      I, said the Linnet,
      I'll fetch it in a minute,
    I'll carry the link.

    This is the Linnet,
    And a link with fire in it.

    Who'll be chief mourner?
      I, said the Dove,
      For I mourn for my love,
    I'll be chief mourner.

    This is the Dove,
    Who Cock Robin did love.

    Who'll sing a psalm?
      I, said the Thrush,
      As she sat in a bush,
    I'll sing a psalm.

    This is the Thrush,
    Singing psalms from a bush.

    Who'll toll the bell?
      I, said the Bull,
      Because I can pull;
    So, Cock Robin, farewell!

    This is the Bull
    Who the bell-rope did pull.

    All the birds of the air
      Fell a-sighing and sobbing,
    When they heard the bell toll
      For Poor Cock Robin.

FREDDIE AND THE CHERRY-TREE.

    FREDDIE saw some fine ripe cherries
      Hanging on a cherry-tree,
    And he said, "You pretty cherries,
      Will you not come down to me?"

    "Thank you kindly," said a cherry,
      "We would rather stay up here;
    If we ventured down this morning,
      You would eat us up, I fear."

    One, the finest of the cherries,
      Dangled from a slender twig;
    "You are beautiful," said Freddie,
      "Red and ripe, and oh, how big!"

    "Catch me," said the cherry, "catch me,
      Little master, if you can."
    "I would catch you soon," said Freddie,
      "If I were a grown-up man."

    Freddie jumped, and tried to reach it,
      Standing high upon his toes;
    But the cherry bobbed about,
      And laughed, and tickled Freddie's nose.

SIMPLE SIMON.

    He went to catch a dickey-bird,
      And thought he could not fail,
    Because he'd got a little salt
      To put upon his tail.

    He went to take a bird's nest,
      Was built upon a bough:
    A branch gave way, and Simon fell
      Into a dirty slough.

    He went to shoot a wild duck,
      But wild duck flew away;
    Says Simon, "I can't hit him,
      Because he will not stay."

    Simple Simon went a-hunting,
      For to catch a hare,
    He rode an ass about the streets,
      But couldn't find one there.

    Simple Simon went a-fishing
      For to catch a whale;
    All the water he had got
      Was in his mother's pail.

    He went for to eat honey
      Out of the mustard-pot,
    He bit his tongue until he cried,
      That was all the good he got.

    He went to ride a spotted cow,
      That had a little calf,
    She threw him down upon the ground,
      Which made the people laugh.

    Once Simon made a great snowball,
      And brought it in to roast;
    He laid it down before the fire,
      And soon the ball was lost.

    He went to slide upon the ice,
      Before the ice would bear;
    Then he plunged in above his knees,
      Which made poor Simon stare.

    He washed himself with blacking-ball,
      Because he had no soap;
    Then said unto his mother,
      "I'm a beauty now, I hope."

    Simple Simon went to look
      If plums grew on a thistle;
    He pricked his fingers very much,
      Which made poor Simon whistle.

    He went for water in a sieve,
      But soon it all ran through;
    And now poor Simple Simon
      Bids you all adieu.

    Willy boy, Willy boy, where are you going?
      I will go with you, if I may.
    I am going to the meadows, to see them mowing,
      I am going to see them make the hay.

    Away, Birds, away!
    Take a little, and leave a little,
    And do not come again;
    For if you do,
    I will shoot you through,
    And then there will be an end of you.

    I had a little dog, they called him Buff,
      I sent him to the shop for a hap'orth of snuff;
    But he lost the bag, and spilt the snuff,
      So take that cuff, and that's enough.

    The Cock doth crow
    To let you know,
    If you be wise,
    'T is time to rise.

    Jack Sprat
    Had a cat,
    It had but one ear,
    It went to buy butter,
    When butter was dear.

    The King of France went up the hill,
      With twenty thousand men,
    The King of France came down the hill,
      And ne'er went up again.

    A carrion crow sat on an oak,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
    Watching a tailor shape his coat;
      Sing he, sing ho, the old carrion crow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

    Wife, bring me my old bent bow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
    That I may shoot yon carrion crow;
      Sing he, sing ho, the old carrion crow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

    The tailor shot, and he missed his mark,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
    And shot the miller's sow right through the heart;
      Sing he, sing ho, the old carrion crow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

    Wife! oh wife! bring brandy in a spoon,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
    For the old miller's sow is in a swoon;
      Sing he, sing ho, the old carrion crow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do!

    Mary had a pretty bird,
      Feathers bright and yellow,
    Slender legs--upon my word,
      He was a pretty fellow.

    The sweetest notes he always sung,
      Which much delighted Mary,
    And near the cage she'd ever sit,
      To hear her own canary.

    Little Blue Betty lived in a lane,
    She sold good ale to gentlemen:
    Gentlemen came every day,
    And Little Blue Betty hopped away;
    She hopped upstairs to make her bed,
    And she tumbled down, and broke her head.

    Little Nancy Etticote,
    In a white petticoat,
    With a red nose;
    The longer she stands,
    The shorter she grows.

A FROG HE WOULD A-WOOING GO.

    A FROG he would a-wooing go,
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    Whether his mother would let him or no.
            With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
            Heigho, says Anthony Rowley!

    So off he set with his opera hat,
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    And on the road he met with a rat.
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    "Pray, Mr. Rat, will you go with me,
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    Kind Mrs. Mousey for to see?"
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    When they came to the door of Mousey's hall,
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    They gave a loud knock, and they gave a loud call.
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    "Pray, Mrs. Mouse, are you within?"
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    "Oh, yes, kind sirs, I'm sitting to spin."
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    "Pray, Mrs. Mouse, will you give us some beer?
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    For Froggy and I are fond of good cheer."
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    "Pray, Mr. Frog, will you give us a song?
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    But let it be something that's not very long."
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    "Indeed, Mrs. Mouse," replied the Frog,
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    "A cold has made me as hoarse as a hog."
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    "Since you have caught cold, Mr. Frog," Mousey said,
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    "I'll sing you a song that I have just made."
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    But while they were all a merry-making,
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    A cat and her kittens came tumbling in.
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    The cat she seized the rat by the crown;
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    The kittens they pulled the little mouse down.
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    This put Mr. Frog in a terrible fright;
                            Heigho, says Rowley.
    He took up his hat, and he wished them good night.
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    But as Froggy was crossing over a brook,
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    A lily-white duck came and gobbled him up.
                            With a rowley powley, &c.

    So there was an end of one, two, and three,
                            Heigho, says Rowley,
    The Rat, the Mouse, and the little Frog-gee!
          With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
          Heigho, says Anthony Rowley!

I SAW A SHIP A-SAILING.

    I SAW a ship a-sailing,
      A-sailing on the sea;
    And, oh! it was all laden
      With pretty things for thee!

    There were comfits in the cabin,
      And apples in the hold;
    The sails were made of silk,
      And the masts were made of gold.

    The four and twenty sailors
      That stood between the decks,
    Were four and twenty white mice,
      With chains about their necks.

    The captain was a duck,
      With a packet on his back;
    And when the ship began to move,
      The captain said, "Quack! quack!"

TOM, TOM, THE PIPER'S SON.

    THERE was an old woman, as I've heard tell,
    She went to market her eggs for to sell;
    She went to market all on a market day,
    And she fell asleep on the King's highway.

    There came by a pedlar, whose name was Stout,
    He cut her petticoats all round about;
    He cut her petticoats up to the knees,
    Which made the old woman to shiver and freeze.

    When the little old woman first did wake,
    She began to shiver and she began to shake;
    She began to wonder, and she began to cry,
    "Lauk a mercy on me, this can't be I!

    But if it be I, as I hope it be,
    I've a little dog at home, and he'll know me;
    If it be I, he'll wag his little tail,
    And if it be not I, he'll loudly bark and wail."

    Home went the little woman all in the dark,
    Up got the little dog, and he began to bark;
    He began to bark, so she began to cry,
    "Lauk a mercy on me, this is none of I!"

    _High_ diddle ding,
    Did you hear the bells ring?
    The Parliament soldiers are gone to the King!
    Some they did laugh, some they did cry,
    To see the Parliament soldiers pass by.

    Three wise men of Gotham
    Went to sea in a bowl;
    If the bowl had been stronger
    My story had been longer.

    Little Boy Blue, come, blow me your horn;
    The sheep's in the meadow, the cow's in the corn.
    Where's the little boy that looks after the sheep?
    He's under the haycock, fast asleep.

THE ROBIN REDBREASTS.

    Two Robin Redbreasts built their nests
      Within a hollow tree;
    The hen sat quietly at home,
      The cock sang merrily;
    And all the little young ones said,
      "Wee, wee, wee, wee, wee, wee."

    One day (the sun was warm and bright,
      And shining in the sky),
    Cock Robin said, "My little dears,
      'T is time you learn to fly;"
    And all the little young ones said,
      "I'll try, I'll try, I'll try."

    I know a child, and _who she is_
      I'll tell you by-and-by,
    When Mamma says, "Do this," or "that,"
      She says, "What for?" and "Why?"
    She'd be a better child by far
      If she would say "I'll try."

    THERE was an old woman
      Lived under a hill,
    And if she's not gone,
      She lives there still.

    We are all in the dumps,
    For diamonds are trumps,
    The kittens are gone to St. Paul's,
    The babies are bit,
    The moon's in a fit,
    And the houses are built without walls.

    AS I was going along, long, long,
    A-singing a comical song, song, song,
    The lane that I went was so long, long, long,
    And the song that I sung was so long, long, long,
    And so I went singing along.

        A-milking, a-milking, my maid,
        "Cow, take care of your heels," she said;
    "And you shall have some nice new hay,
    If you'll quietly let me milk away."

    Old father Grey Beard,
      Without tooth or tongue,
    If you'll give me your finger,
      I'll give you my thumb.

    Dance a baby diddit,
    What can his mother do with it,
    But sit in a lap,
    And give him some pap?
    Dance a baby diddit.

    Snail, snail, come out of your hole,
    Or else I'll beat you as black as a coal.

    At the siege of Belleisle I was there all the while,
    All the while, all the while, at the siege of Belleisle.

    Bye, baby bunting,
    Father's gone a-hunting,
    Mother's gone a-milking,
    Sister's gone a-silking,
    Brother's gone to buy a skin
    To wrap the baby bunting in.

    Young lambs to sell, young lambs to sell;
    If I had as much money as I could tell
    I never would cry young lambs to sell,
    Young lambs to sell, young lambs to sell,
    I never would cry, young lambs to sell.

    Come, let's to bed, says Sleepy-head;
      Tarry a while, says Slow;
    Put on the pan, says Greedy Nan,
      Let's sup before we go.

    To make your candles last for aye,
    You wives and maids give ear-o!
    To put them out's the only way,
    Says honest John Boldero.

THE GREAT BROWN OWL

    THE Brown Owl sits in the ivy-bush,
      And she looketh wondrous wise,
    With a horny beak beneath her cowl,
      And a pair of large round eyes.

    She sat all day on the selfsame spray,
      From sunrise till sunset;
    And the dim grey light, it was all too bright
      For the Owl to see in yet.

    "Jenny Owlet, Jenny Owlet," said a merry little bird,
      "They say you're wondrous wise;
    But I don't think you see, though you're looking at ME
    With your large, round, shining eyes."

    But night came soon, and the pale white moon
      Rolled high up in the skies;
    And the great Brown Owl flew away in her cowl,
      With her large, round, shining eyes.

LITTLE TOM TUCKER.

    Four and twenty tailors went to kill a snail,
    The best man amongst them durst not touch her tail.
    She put out her horns, like a little Kyloe cow,
    Run, tailors, run, or she'll kill you all just now.

    Doctor Foster went to Glo'ster,
    In a shower of rain;
    He stepped in a puddle, up to the middle,
    And never went there again.

    Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
      How does your garden grow?
    Silver bells and cockle-shells,
      And pretty maids all in a row.

    The man in the moon
    Came tumbling down,
    And asked the way to Norwich;
    He went by the south,
    And burnt his mouth
    With eating cold pease porridge.

    Little Robin Redbreast sat upon a rail,
    Niddle, naddle, went his head, wiggle, waddle, went his tail;
    Little Robin Redbreast sat upon a bridle,
    With a pair of speckle legs, and a green girdle.

    Pit, pat, well-a-day!
    Little Robin flew away;
    Where can little Robin be,
    But up in yon cherry-tree?

    Ding, dong, darrow,
    The cat and the sparrow;
    The little dog has burnt his tail,
    And he shall be whipped to-morrow.

DAME DUCK'S LESSONS TO HER DUCKLINGS.

    OLD MOTHER DUCK has hatched a brood
      Of ducklings, small and callow:
    Their little wings are short, their down
      Is mottled grey and yellow.

    There is a quiet little stream,
      That runs into the moat,
    Where tall green sedges spread their leaves,
      And water-lilies float.

    Close by the margin of the brook
      The old Duck made her nest,
    Of straw, and leaves, and withered grass,
      And down from her own breast.

    And there she sat for four long weeks,
      In rainy days and fine,
    Until the Ducklings all came out--
      Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.

    One peeped out from beneath her wing,
      One scrambled on her back:
    "That's very rude," said old Dame Duck,
      "Get off! quack, quack, quack, quack!"

    "'T is close," said Dame Duck, shoving out
      The egg-shells with her bill,
    "Besides, it never suits young ducks
      To keep them sitting still."

    So, rising from her nest, she said,
      "Now, children, look at me:
    A well-bred duck should waddle so,
      From side to side--d'ye see?"

    "Yes," said the little ones, and then
      She went on to explain:
    "A well-bred duck turns in its toes
      As I do--try again."

    "Yes," said the Ducklings, waddling on.
      "That's better," said their mother;
    "But well-bred ducks walk in a row,
      Straight--one behind another."

    "Yes," said the little Ducks again,
      All waddling in a row:
    "Now to the pond," said old Dame Duck--
      Splash, splash! and in they go.

    "Let me swim first," said old Dame Duck,
      "To this side, now to that;
    There, snap at those great brown-winged flies,
      They make young ducklings fat.

    "Now when you reach the poultry-yard,
      The hen-wife, Molly Head,
    Will feed you, with the other fowls,
      On bran and mashed-up bread;

    "The hens will peck and fight, but mind,
      I hope that all of you
    Will gobble up the food as fast
      As well-bred ducks should do.

    "You'd better get into the dish,
      Unless it is too small;
    In that case, I should use my foot,
      And overturn it all."

    The Ducklings did as they were bid,
      And found the plan so good,
    That, from that day, the other fowls
      Got hardly any food.

    Is John Smith within?
    Yes, that he is.
    Can he set a shoe?
    Ay, marry, two.
    Here a nail, there a nail,
    Tick, tack, too.

    John Cook he had a little grey mare,
                                    hee, haw, hum;
    Her legs were long and her back was bare,
                                    hee, haw, hum.

    John Cook was riding up Shooter's Bank,
                                    hee, haw, hum;
    The mare she began to kick and to prank,
                                    hee, haw, hum.

    John Cook was riding up Shooter's Hill,
                                    hee, haw, hum;
    His mare fell down and made her will,
                                    hee, haw, hum.

    The bridle and saddle were laid on the shelf,
                                    hee, haw, hum;
    If you want any more, you may sing it yourself,
                                    hee, haw, hum.

        Old King Cole
        Was a merry old soul,
    And a merry old soul was he;
        And he called for his pipe
        And he called for his glass,
    And he called for his fiddlers three!

    A Apple Pie.

    B bit it.

    C cut it.

    D dealt it.

    E eat it.

    F fought for it.

    G got it.

    H hid it.

    J jumped for it.

    K kept it.

    L longed for it.

    M mourned for it.

    N nodded at it.

    O opened it.

    P peeped at it.

    Q quartered it.

    R ran for it.

    S stole it.

    T tried for it.

    V viewed it.

    X Y Z &

    Amperse-and,
    All wished for
    A piece in hand.

    Pussy sits beside the fire. How can she be fair?
    In walks a little doggy,--Pussy, are you there?

    Oh, the rusty, dusty, rusty miller,
    I'll not change my wife for gold or siller.

    There was a crooked man, and he went a crooked mile,
    And he found a crooked sixpence against a crooked stile;
    He bought a crooked cat, which caught a crooked mouse,
    And they all lived together in a little crooked house.

    High diddle doubt, my candle's out,
      My little maid is not at home;
    Saddle my hog and bridle my dog,
      And fetch my little maid home.

BAA, BAA, BLACK SHEEP.

    Barber, barber, shave a pig.
    How many hairs will make a wig?
    Four and twenty; that's enough.
    Give the poor barber a pinch of snuff.

    The Lion and the Unicorn were fighting for the crown,
    The Lion beat the Unicorn all round about the town.
    Some gave them white bread, some gave them brown,
    Some gave them plum-cake, and sent them out of town.

    Thomas a Tattamus took two T's
    To tie two tups to two tall trees,
    To frighten the terrible Thomas a Tattamus.
    Tell me how many T's there are in all THAT.

    Bessy Bell and Mary Gray,
      They were two bonny lasses,
    They built a house upon the lea,
      And covered it o'er with rashes.

    Bessy kept the garden gate,
      And Mary kept the pantry;
    Bessy always had to wait,
      While Mary lived in plenty.

    LITTLE boy, pretty boy, where were you born?
    In Lincolnshire, master; come, blow the cow's horn.

    Hey, diddle, diddle, the cat and the fiddle
      The cow jumped over the moon;
    The little dog laughed to see such sport,
      And the dish ran after the spoon.

THE YOUNG LINNETS.

    DID you ever see the nest
      Of Chaffinch or of Linnet,
    When the little downy birds
      Are lying snugly in it,

    Gaping wide their yellow mouths
      For something nice to eat?
    Caterpillar, worm, and grub,
      They reckon dainty meat.

    When the mother-bird returns,
      And finds them still and good,
    She will give them each, by turns,
      A proper share of food.

    She has hopped from spray to spray,
      And peeped with knowing eye
    Into all the folded leaves
      Where caterpillars lie.

    She has searched among the grass,
      And flown from tree to tree,
    Catching gnats and flies, to feed
      Her little family.

    I have seen the Linnets chirp,
      And shake their downy wings:
    They are pleased to see her come,
      And pleased with what she brings.

    But I never saw them look
      Impatient for their food:
    _Somebody_, at dinner-time,
      Is seldom quite so good.

    See-saw, Margery Daw,
    Jenny shall have a new master;
    She shall have but a penny a day,
    Because she can't work any faster.

    DANCE to your daddy,
    My little babby;
    Dance to your daddy,
    My little lamb.
    You shall have a fishy,
    In a little dishy;
    You shall have a fishy,
    When the boat comes in.

    Queen Anne, Queen Anne, she sits in the sun,
    As fair as the lily, as white as the swan:
    I send you three letters, so pray you read one.
    I cannot read one unless I read all;
    So pray, Master Teddy, deliver the ball.

    Little girl, little girl, where have you been?
    Gathering roses to give to the Queen.
    Little girl, little girl, what gave she you?
    She gave me a diamond as big as my shoe.

    There was an old woman tossed up in a basket,
      Ninety times as high as the moon;
    And where she was going, I couldn't but ask it,
      For in her hand she carried a broom.

    Old woman, old woman, old woman, quoth I,
      O whither, O whither, O whither so high?
    To sweep the cobwebs off the sky!
      Shall I go with you? Ay, by-and-by.

    When I was a bachelor, I lived by myself,
    And all the meat I got I put upon a shelf;
    The rats and the mice did lead me such a life,
    That I went to London, to get myself a wife.

    The streets were so broad, and the lanes were so narrow,
    I could not get my wife home without a wheelbarrow,
    The wheelbarrow broke, my wife got a fall,
    Down tumbled wheelbarrow, little wife, and all.

    Robin and Richard were two pretty men,
    They lay in bed till the clock struck ten;
    Then up starts Robin and looks in the sky,
    "Oh, brother Richard, the sun's very high!
    You go on with bottle and bag,
    And I'll come after with jolly Jack Nag."

    Blow, wind, blow, and go, mill, go,
    That the miller may grind his corn;
      That the baker may take it,
      And into rolls make it,
    And bring us some hot in the morn.

    Jack be nimble,
    Jack be quick,
    And Jack jump over the candlestick.

    Ride a cock-horse
    To Banbury Cross,
    To see a fine lady
    Upon a white horse.
    Rings on her fingers,
    Bells on her toes,
    She shall have music
    Wherever she goes.

THE FOX AND THE FARMER.

    A FOX jumped up on a moonlight night,
    The stars were shining, and all things bright;
    "Oh, ho!" said the Fox, "it's a very fine night
      For me to go through the town, heigho!"

    The Fox when he came to yonder stile,
    He lifted his ears, and he listened awhile;
    "Oh, ho!" said the Fox, "it's but a short mile
      From this unto yonder town, heigho!"

    The Fox when he came to the farmer's gate,
    Whom should he see but the farmer's Drake;
    "I love you well for your master's sake,
      And long to be picking your bones, heigho!"

    The grey Goose ran right round the haystack.
    "Oh, ho!" said the Fox, "you are very fat;
    You'll do very well to ride on my back,
      From this into yonder town, heigho!"

    The farmer's wife she jumped out of bed,
    And out of the window she popped her head;
    "Oh, husband! oh, husband! the Geese are all dead,
      For the Fox has been through the town, heigho!"

    The farmer he loaded his pistol with lead,
    And shot the old rogue of a Fox through the head;
    "Ah, ha!" said the farmer, "I think you're quite dead,
      And no more you'll trouble the town, heigho!"

    PEASE pudding hot,
      Pease pudding cold,
    Pease pudding in the pot,
      Nine days old.

    Some like it hot,
      Some like it cold,
    Some like it in the pot,
      Nine days old.

    Curly-locks, Curly-locks, wilt thou be mine?
    Thou shalt not wash the dishes, nor yet feed the swine;
    But sit on a cushion, and sew a fine seam,
    And feed upon strawberries, sugar, and cream.

    Margery Mutton-pie, and Johnny Bo-peep,
    They met together in Gracechurch Street;
    In and out, in and out, over the way,
    Oh! says Johnny, 'tis Chop-nose Day.

    There was a Rat, for want of stairs,
    Went down a rope to say his prayers.

    Snail, snail, come put out your horn,
    To-morrow is the day to shear the corn.

    If wishes were horses, beggars would ride,
    If turnips were watches, I would wear one by my side.

          Hark, hark,
          The dogs do bark,
    The beggars are coming to town;
          Some in jags,
          Some in rags,
    And some in velvet gown.

    One, two, buckle my shoe;
    Three, four, shut the door;
    Five, six, pick up sticks;
    Seven, eight, lay them straight;
    Nine, ten, a good fat hen;
    Eleven, twelve, dig and delve;
    Thirteen, fourteen, maids a-courting;
    Fifteen, sixteen, maids in the kitchen;
    Seventeen, eighteen, maids in waiting;
    Nineteen, twenty, my plate is empty.

    I had a little husband, no bigger than my thumb;
    I put him in a pint pot, and there I bid him drum.

    I bought a little horse that galloped up and down;
    I saddled him, and bridled him, and sent him out of town.

    I gave him some garters, to garter up his hose,
    And a little pocket-handkerchief to wipe his pretty nose.

    I have a little sister; they call her Peep, Peep,
    She wades the water, deep, deep, deep;
    She climbs the mountains, high, high, high.
    Poor little thing! she has but one eye.

    Handy Spandy, Jack-a-dandy,
    Loves plum-cake and sugarcandy;
    He brought some at a grocer's shop,
    And out he came, hop-hop-hop.

    If all the world were water,
      And all the water were ink,
    What should we do for bread and cheese?
      What should we do for drink?

    Hey, my kitten, my kitten,
      Hey, my kitten, my deary;
    Such a sweet pet as this
      Was neither far nor neary.

    Here we go up, up, up,
    Here we go down, down, down;
    Here we go backwards and forwards,
    And here we go round, round, round.

    I had a little pony;
      They called him Dapple-grey.
    I lent him to a lady,
      To ride a mile away.
    She whipped him, she slashed
      him,
    She rode him through the
      mire;
    I would not lend my pony now,
      For all the lady's hire.

    See, see. What shall I see?
    A horse's head where his tail should be.

          Pussy cat, Pussy cat, where have you been?
          I've been to London to look at the Queen.
    Pussy cat, Pussy cat, what did you do there?
    I frightened a little mouse under the chair.

    Little Tommy Tittlemouse
    Lived in a little house;
    He caught fishes
    In other men's ditches.

THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.

    This is the MALT
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the RAT
    That ate the malt,
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the CAT,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt,
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the DOG,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt,
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the COW with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt,
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the MAIDEN all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt,
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the MAN all tattered and torn,
    That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog, that worried the cat,
    That killed the rat, that ate the malt,
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the PRIEST all shaven and shorn,
    That married the man all tattered and torn,
    That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog, that worried the cat,
    That killed the rat, that ate the malt,
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the COCK that crowed in the morn,
    That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
    That married the man all tattered and torn,
    That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog, that worried the cat,
    That killed the rat, that ate the malt,
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the FARMER who sowed the corn,
    That kept the cock that crowed in the morn,
    That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
    That married the man all tattered and torn,
    That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog, that worried the cat,
    That killed the rat, that ate the malt,
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    Old mother Widdle Waddle jumped out of bed,
    And out of the casement she popped her head,
    Crying, "The house is on fire, the grey goose is dead,
    And the fox has come to the town, oh!"

    Two legs sat upon three legs,
    With one leg in his lap;
    In comes four legs,
    And runs away with one leg;
    Up jumps two legs,
    Catches up three legs,
    Throws it after four legs,
    And makes him bring one leg back.

    A little boy went into a barn,
      And lay down on some hay;
    An owl came out and flew about,
      And the little boy ran away.

    As I was going up Primrose Hill,
      Primrose Hill was dirty;
    There I met a pretty Miss,
      And she dropped me a curtsey.
    Little Miss, pretty Miss,
      Blessings light upon you;
    If I had half-a-crown a day,
      I'd spend it all upon you.

    I had a little Hen, the prettiest ever seen,
    She washed me the dishes and kept the house clean;
    She went to the mill to fetch me some flour,
    She brought it home in less than an hour;
    She baked me my bread, she brewed me my ale,
    She sat by the fire and told many a fine tale.

    There was a little man, and he had a little gun,
      And his bullets were made of lead, lead, lead;
    He shot Johnny King through the middle of his wig,
      And knocked it right off his head, head, head.

    Three straws on a staff,
    Would make a baby cry and laugh.

    Multiplication is vexation,
      Division is as bad;
    The Rule of Three perplexes me,
    And Practice drives me mad.

    Daffy-down-Dilly has come up to town,
    In a yellow petticoat and a green gown.

      The Queen of Hearts
      She made some tarts
    All on a summer's day;
      The Knave of Hearts
      He stole those tarts,
    And took them clean away.

      The King of Hearts
      Called for the tarts,
    And beat the Knave full sore;
      The Knave of Hearts
      Brought back the tarts,
    And vowed he'd steal no more.

    There were three crows sat on a stone,
                                Fal la, la la lal de,
    Two flew away, and then there was one,
                                Fal la, la la lal de,
    The other crow finding himself alone,
                                Fal la, la la lal de,
    He flew away, and then there was none,
                                Fal la, la la lal de.

    When the wind is in the East,
    'Tis neither good for man nor beast;
    When the wind is in the North,
    The skilful fisher goes not forth;
    When the wind is in the South,
    It blows the bait in the fishes' mouth;
    When the wind is in the West,
    Then 'tis at the very best.

    Cry, baby, cry,
    Put your finger in your eye,
    And tell your mother it wasn't I.

    VERY high in the pine-tree,
      The little Turtle-dove
    Made a pretty little nursery,
      To please her little love.
    She was gentle, she was soft,
      And her large dark eye
    Often turned to her mate,
      Who was sitting close by.

    "Coo," said the Turtle-dove,
      "Coo," said she;
    "Oh, I love thee," said the Turtle-dove.
      "And I love THEE."
    In the long shady branches
      Of the dark pine-tree,
    How happy were the Doves
      In their little nursery!

    The young Turtle-doves
      Never quarrelled in the nest;
    For they dearly loved each other,
      Though they loved their mother best.
    "Coo," said the little Doves.
      "Coo," said she.
    And they played together kindly
      In the dark pine-tree.

    In this nursery of yours,
      Little sister, little brother,
    Like the Turtle-dove's nest--
      Do you love one another?
    Are you kind, are you gentle,
      As children ought to be?
    Then the happiest of nests
      Is your own nursery.

        Peter White
        Will ne'er go right,
    Would you know the reason why?
        He follows his nose
        Wherever he goes,
    And that stands all awry.

      He that would thrive,
      Must rise at five;
      He that hath thriven,
      May lie till seven;
    And he that by the plough would thrive,
    Himself must either hold or drive.

    Hush-a-bye, baby,
      Daddy is near;
    Mamma is a lady,
      And that's very clear.

    There was an old woman who lived in a shoe,
    She had so many children she didn't know what to do
    She gave them some broth, without any bread,
    She whipped them all round, and sent them to bed.

    One, two, three,
    I love coffee,
    And Billy loves tea,
    How good you be.
    One, two, three,
    I love coffee,
    And Billy loves tea.

    There was an old woman called Nothing-at-all,
    Who lived in a dwelling exceedingly small;
    A man stretched his mouth to its utmost extent,
    And down at one gulp house and old woman went.

    I had a little hobby horse,
      And it was dapple grey,
    Its head was made of pea-straw,
      Its tail was made of hay.
    I sold it to an old woman
      For a copper groat;
    And I'll not sing my song again
      Without a new coat.

    Eggs, butter, cheese, bread,
    Stick, stock, stone, dead,
    Stick him up, stick him down,
    Stick him in the old man's crown.

THE FROG'S CHORUS.

        "YAUP, yaup, yaup!"
    Said the croaking voice of a Frog:
        "A rainy day
        In the month of May,
    And plenty of room in the bog."

        "Yaup, yaup, yaup!"
    Said the Frog as it hopped away:
        "The insects feed
        On the floating weed,
    And I'm hungry for dinner to-day."

        "Yaup, yaup, yaup!"
    Said the Frog, as it splashed about:
        "Good neighbours all,
        When you hear me call,
    It is odd that you do not come out."

        "Yaup, yaup, yaup!"
    Said the Frogs; "it is charming weather;
        We'll come and sup,
        When the moon is up,
    And we'll all of us croak together."

    What's the news of the day,
    Good neighbour, I pray?
    They say the balloon
    Is gone up to the moon.

        Cross-Patch,
        Draw the latch,
    Sit by the fire and spin;
        Take a cup,
        And drink it up,
    And call your neighbours in.

    There was an old Crow
      Sat upon a clod.
    There's an end of my song,
      That's very odd.

    Ding, dong, bell, Pussy's in the well.
    Who put her in? Little Tommy Green.
    Who pulled her out? Little Tommy Trout.
    What a naughty boy was that,
    Thus to drown poor Pussy Cat.

NURSERY RHYME ALPHABET.

    A was the Archer who shot at a frog.
    B was Bo-peep, with her crook and her dog.
    C was the Cow that jumped over the moon.
    D was the Dish that ran off with the spoon.
    E was Elizabeth, Betsey, and Bess.
    F was the Forest where stood the bird's-nest.
    G Gaffer Longlegs; downstairs he'd a fall.
    H Humpty Dumpty that sat on the wall.
    I was that "_I_" who was going to St. Ives.
    J Jacky Horner, on plum-pie he thrives.
    K was King Cole with his fiddlers three.
    L Little Gold-Hair, peeping, you see.
    M Mother Hubbard who thought her dog dead.
    N Little Netticoat, with a red head.
    O the old Woman "upon market day;"
    P was the "Pedlar" who passed by that way.
    Q was the Queen of Hearts, tartlets she makes.
    R was Red Riding Hood carrying the cakes.
    S Simple Simon, the pieman beside.
    T Tommy Tucker, for supper who cried.
    U was the Unicorn, "beat round the town;"
    V was Victoria--she fought for her crown.
    W Whittington, who turned again,
    Over great London as Lord Mayor to reign.
    X is a letter that here we can spare.
    Y "Yankee Doodle," that went to the fair;
    Z is the Zany who laughed at him there.

    Swan, swan, over the sea;
    Swim, swan, swim.
    Swan, swan, back again;
    Well, swan, swam.

    One misty moisty morning,
    When cloudy was the weather,
    I met a little old man,
    Clothed all in leather,
    Clothed all in leather,
    With a strap below his chin.
    How do you do? and how do you do?
    And how do you do again?

    Deedle, deedle, dumpling, my son John,
    He went to bed with his stockings on;
    One shoe off, and one shoe on,
    Deedle, deedle, dumpling, my son John.

    The old woman must stand at the tub, tub, tub,
    The dirty clothes to rub, rub, rub;
    But when they are clean, and fit to be seen,
    I'll dress like a lady, and dance on the green.

    Hickety, pickety, my black hen,
    She lays eggs for gentlemen;
    Gentlemen come every day
    To see what my black hen doth lay.

    I'll tell you a story,
    About John-a-Nory:
      And now my story's begun.
    I'll tell you another,
    About Jack and his brother:
      And now my story's done.

I LOVE SIXPENCE.

    I LOVE sixpence, pretty little sixpence,
      I love sixpence better than my life;
    I spent a penny of it, I spent another,
      And took fourpence home to my wife.

    Oh, my little fourpence, pretty little fourpence,
      I love fourpence better than my life;
    I spent a penny of it, I spent another,
      And I took twopence home to my wife.

    Oh, my little twopence, my pretty little twopence,
      I love twopence better than my life;
    I spent a penny of it, I spent another,
      And I took nothing home to my wife.

    Oh, my little nothing, my pretty little nothing,
      What will nothing buy for my wife?
    I have nothing, I spend nothing,
      I love nothing better than my wife.

        There was a fat man of Bombay,
        Who was smoking one sunshiny day,
    When a bird called a Snipe flew away with his pipe,
        Which vexed the fat man of Bombay.

    THE King was in his counting-house,
      Counting out his money;

    The Queen was in the parlour,
      Eating bread and honey;

    The maid was in the garden,
      Hanging out the clothes;
    By came a little bird,
      And snapt off her nose.

    Little Polly Flinders
    Sate among the cinders
      Warming her pretty little toes!
    Her mother came and caught her,
    And whipped her little daughter,
      For spoiling her nice new clothes.

    Great A, little A,
      Bouncing B,
    The cat's in the cupboard,
      And she can't see.

    Poor old Robinson Crusoe! poor old Robinson Crusoe!
    They made him a coat of an old Nanny goat,
        I wonder how they could do so!
    With a ring-a-ting-tang, and a ring-a-ting-tang,
        Poor old Robinson Crusoe!

    Bat, bat, come under my hat,
      And I'll give you a slice of bacon,
    And when I bake I'll give you a cake,
      If I am not mistaken.

    The North Wind doth blow,
    And we shall have snow,
    And what will poor Robin do then?
                Poor thing!

    He will hop to a barn,
    And to keep himself warm,
    Will hide his head under his wing,
                Poor thing!

THE OLD WOMAN AND HER PIG.

AN old woman was sweeping her house, and she found a little crooked
sixpence. "What," said she, "shall I do with this little sixpence? I
will go to market, and buy a little pig." As she was coming home, she
came to a stile: the piggy would not go over the stile.

She went a little farther, and she met a dog. So she said to the dog--

    "Dog, dog, bite pig;
     Piggy won't get over the stile;
     And I shan't get home to-night."

But the dog would not.

She went a little farther, and she met a stick. So she said--

    "Stick, stick, beat dog;
     Dog won't bite pig;
     Piggy won't get over the stile,
     And I shan't get home to-night."

But the stick would not.

She went a little farther, and she met a fire. So she said--

    "Fire, fire, burn stick;
     Stick won't beat dog;
     Dog won't bite pig;
     Piggy won't get over the stile;
     And I shan't get home to-night."

But the fire would not.

She went a little farther, and she met some water. So she said--

    "Water, water, quench fire;
     Fire won't burn stick;
     Stick won't beat dog;
     Dog won't bite pig;
     Piggy won't get over the stile;
     And I shan't get home to-night."

But the water would not.

She went a little farther, and she met an ox. So she said--

    "Ox, ox, drink water;
     Water won't quench fire;
     Fire won't burn stick;
     Stick won't beat dog;
     Dog won't bite pig;
     Piggy won't get over the stile;
     And I shan't get home to-night."

But the ox would not.

She went a little farther, and she met a butcher. So she said--

    "Butcher, butcher, kill ox;
     Ox won't drink water;
     Water won't quench fire;
     Fire won't burn stick;

    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Piggy won't get over the stile;
    And I shan't get home to-night."

But the butcher would not.

She went a little farther, and she met a rope. So she said--

    "Rope, rope, hang butcher;
     Butcher won't kill ox;
     Ox won't drink water;
     Water won't quench fire;
     Fire won't burn stick;
     Stick won't beat dog;
     Dog won't bite pig;
     Piggy won't get over the stile;
     And I shan't get home to-night."

But the rope would not.

She went a little farther, and she met a rat. So she said--

    "Rat, rat, gnaw rope;
     Rope won't hang butcher;
     Butcher won't kill ox;
     Ox won't drink water;

    Water won't quench fire;
    Fire won't burn stick;
    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Piggy won't get over the stile;
    And I shan't get home to-night."

But the rat would not. She went a little farther, and she met a cat. So
she said--

    "Cat, cat, kill rat;
     Rat won't gnaw rope;
     Rope won't hang butcher;
     Butcher won't kill ox;
     Ox won't drink water;
     Water won't quench fire;
     Fire won't burn stick;
     Stick won't beat dog;
     Dog won't bite pig;
     Piggy won't get over the stile;
     And I shan't get home to-night."

But the cat said to her, "If you will go to yonder cow, and fetch me a
saucer of milk, I will kill the rat." So away went the old woman to the
cow, and said--

    "Cow, cow, give me a saucer of milk;
     Cat won't kill rat;
     Rat won't gnaw rope;
     Rope won't hang butcher;
     Butcher won't kill ox;
     Ox won't drink water;
     Water won't quench fire;
     Fire won't burn stick;
     Stick won't beat dog;
     Dog won't bite pig;
     Piggy won't get over the stile;
     And I shan't get home to-night."

But the cow said to her, "If you will go to yonder haymakers, and fetch
me a wisp of hay, I'll give you the milk." So away the old woman went to
the haymakers, and said--

    "Haymakers, give me a wisp of hay;
     Cow won't give me milk;
     Cat won't kill rat;
     Rat won't gnaw rope;
     Rope won't hang butcher;
     Butcher won't kill ox;
     Ox won't drink water;
     Water won't quench fire;

    Fire won't burn stick;
    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Piggy won't get over the stile;
    And I shan't get home to-night."

But the haymakers said to her,--"If you will go to yonder stream, and
fetch us a bucket of water, we'll give you the hay." So away the old
woman went; but when she got to the stream, she found the bucket was
full of holes. So she covered the bottom with pebbles, and then filled
the bucket with water, and away she went back with it to the haymakers;
and they gave her a wisp of hay.

As soon as the cow had eaten the hay, she gave the old woman the milk;
and away she went with it in a saucer to the cat. As soon as the cat had
lapped up the milk--

    The cat began to kill the rat;
    The rat began to gnaw the rope;
    The rope began to hang the butcher;
    The butcher began to kill the ox;
    The ox began to drink the water;
    The water began to quench the fire;
    The fire began to burn the stick;
    The stick began to beat the dog;
    The dog began to bite the pig;

    The little pig in a fright jumped over the stile;
    And so the old woman got home that night.

    A diller, a dollar, a ten o'clock scholar,
      What makes you come so soon?
    You used to come at ten o'clock,
      But now you come at noon.

    Jacky, come give me thy fiddle,
      If ever thou mean to thrive.
    Nay, I'll not give my fiddle
      To any man alive.

    If I should give my fiddle,
      They'll think that I'm gone mad;
    For many a joyful day
      My fiddle and I have had.

    Tommy kept a chandler's shop,
    Richard went to buy a mop,
    Tommy gave him such a whop,
    That sent him out of his chandler's shop.

    See a pin and pick it up,
    All the day you'll have good luck.
    See a pin and let it lay,
    Bad luck you'll have all the day.

      Please to remember the fifth of November,
        The Gunpowder treason plot;
      I see no reason why Gunpowder treason,
        Should ever be forgot.
    A stick and a stake for Victoria's sake,
    Hollo, boys! hollo, boys! God save the Queen.

    Leg over leg,
      As the dog went to Dover,
    When he came to a stile,
      Jump he went over.

    Ladybird, Ladybird,
    Fly away home,
    Your house is on fire,
    Your children will burn.

        1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
    I caught a hare alive;
        6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
    I let her go again.

    This is the way the ladies go--
                           Nim, nim, nim.
    This is the way the gentlemen go--
                           Trot, trot, trot.
    This is the way the hunters go--
                           Gallop, gallop, gallop.

    There was an old man of Tobago,
    Who lived on rice, gruel, and sago;
        Till, much to his bliss,

        His physician said this--
    "To a leg, sir, of mutton you may go."

      Little Miss Muffett
      She sat on a tuffett,
    Eating of curds and whey;
      There came a little spider,
      Who sat down beside her,
    And frightened Miss Muffett away.

    As Tommy Snooks and Bessy Brooks,
    Were walking out one Sunday,
    Says Tommy Snooks to Bessy Brooks,
    Wilt marry me on Monday?

    The cat sat asleep by the side of the fire,
    The mistress snored loud as a pig,
    Jack took up his fiddle by Jenny's desire,
    And struck up a bit of a jig.

    Here am I,
      Little jumping Joan,
    When nobody's with me,
      I'm always alone.

GOOD DOBBIN.

    OH! thank you, good Dobbin, you've been a long track,
    And have carried papa all the way on your back;
    You shall have some nice oats, faithful Dobbin, indeed,
    For you've brought papa home to his darling with speed.

    The howling wind blew, and the pelting rain beat,
    And the thick mud has covered his legs and his feet,
    But yet on he galloped in spite of the rain,
    And has brought papa home to his darling again.

    The sun it was setting a long while ago,
    And papa could not see the road where he should go,
    But Dobbin kept on through the desolate wild,
    And has brought papa home again safe to his child.

    Now go to the stable, the night is so raw,
    Go, Dobbin, and rest your old bones on the straw;
    Don't stand any longer out here in the rain,
    For you've brought papa home to his darling again.

THE DIVERTING HISTORY OF JOHN GILPIN.

SHOWING HOW HE WENT FARTHER THAN HE INTENDED, AND CAME SAFE HOME AGAIN.

    JOHN GILPIN was a citizen
      Of credit and renown,
    A train-band captain eke was he,
      Of famous London town.

    John Gilpin's spouse said to her dear,
      "Though wedded we have been
    These twice ten tedious years, yet we
      No holiday have seen.

    "To-morrow is our wedding-day,
      And we will then repair
    Unto the "Bell" at Edmonton,
      All in a chaise and pair.

    "My sister, and my sister's child,
      Myself, and children three,
    Will fill the chaise; so you must ride
      On horseback after we."

    He soon replied, "I do admire
      Of womankind but one,
    And you are she, my dearest dear,
      Therefore it shall be done.

    "I am a linendraper bold,
      As all the world doth know,
    And my good friend the calender
      Will lend his horse to go."

    Quoth Mrs. Gilpin, "That's well said;
      And for that wine is dear,
    We will be furnished with our own,
      Which is both bright and clear."

    John Gilpin kissed his loving wife;
      O'erjoyed was he to find,
    That though on pleasure she was bent,
      She had a frugal mind.

    The morning came, the chaise was brought,
      But yet was not allowed
    To drive up to the door, lest all
      Should say that she was proud.

    So three doors off the chaise was stayed,
      Where they did all get in;
    Six precious souls, and all agog
      To dash through thick and thin.

    Smack went the whip, round went the wheels,
      Were never folks so glad!
    The stones did rattle underneath,
      As if Cheapside were mad.

    John Gilpin at his horse's side
      Seized fast the flowing mane,
    And up he got, in haste to ride,
      But soon came down again.

    For saddletree scarce reached had he,
      His journey to begin,
    When, turning round his head, he saw
      Three customers come in.

    So down he came; for loss of time,
      Although it grieved him sore,
    Yet loss of pence, full well he knew,
      Would trouble him much more.

    'Twas long before the customers
      Were suited to their mind,
    When Betty screaming came downstairs,
      "The wine is left behind!"

    "Good lack!" quoth he, "yet bring it me,
      My leathern belt likewise,
    In which I bear my trusty sword
      When I do exercise."

    Now Mistress Gilpin (careful soul!)
      Had two stone bottles found,
    To hold the liquor that she loved,
      And keep it safe and sound.

    Each bottle had a curling ear,
      Through which the belt he drew,
    And hung a bottle on each side,
      To make his balance true.

    Then over all, that he might be
      Equipped from top to toe,
    His long red cloak, well brushed and neat,
      He manfully did throw.

    Now see him mounted once again
      Upon his nimble steed,
    Full slowly pacing o'er the stones,
      With caution and good heed.

    But finding soon a smoother road
      Beneath his well-shod feet,
    The snorting beast began to trot,
      Which galled him in his seat.

    "So, fair and softly!" John he cried,
      But John he cried in vain;
    That trot became a gallop soon,
      In spite of curb and rein.

    So stooping down, as needs he must
      Who cannot sit upright,
    He grasped the mane with both his hands,
      And eke with all his might.

    His horse, who never in that sort
      Had handled been before,
    What thing upon his back had got,
      Did wonder more and more.

    Away went Gilpin, neck or nought;
      Away went hat and wig;

    He little dreamt, when he set out,
      Of running such a rig.

    The wind did blow, the cloak did fly
      Like streamer long and gay,
    Till, loop and button failing both,
      At last it flew away.

    Then might all people well discern
      The bottles he had slung;
    A bottle swinging at each side,
      As hath been said or sung.

    The dogs did bark, the children screamed,
      Up flew the windows all;
    And every soul cried out, "Well done!"
      As loud as he could bawl.

    Away went Gilpin--who but he?
      His fame soon spread around:
    "He carries weight! he rides a race!
      'Tis for a thousand pound!"

    And still as fast as he drew near,
      'Twas wonderful to view
    How in a trice the turnpike-men
      Their gates wide open threw.

    And now, as he went bowing down
      His reeking head full low,
    The bottles twain behind his back
      Were shattered at a blow.

    Down ran the wine into the road,
      Most piteous to be seen,
    Which made the horses flanks to smoke
      As they had basted been.

    But still he seemed to carry weight,
      With leathern girdle braced;
    For all might see the bottle-necks
      Still dangling at his waist.

    Thus all through merry Islington
      These gambols he did play,
    Until he came unto the Wash
      Of Edmonton so gay;

    And there he threw the wash about
      On both sides of the way,
    Just like unto a trundling mop,
      Or a wild goose at play.

    At Edmonton his loving wife
      From the balcony spied
    Her tender husband, wondering much
      To see how he did ride.

    "Stop, stop, John Gilpin!--Here's the house!"
      They all at once did cry;
    "The dinner waits, and we are tired;"
      Said Gilpin--"So am I!"

    But yet his horse was not a whit
      Inclined to tarry there;
    For why?--his owner had a house
      Full ten miles off, at Ware.

    So like an arrow swift he flew,
      Shot by an archer strong;
    So did he fly--which brings me to
      The middle of my song.

    Away went Gilpin out of breath
      And sore against his will,
    Till at his friend the calender's,
      His horse at last stood still.

    The calender, amazed to see
      His neighbour in such trim,
    Laid down his pipe, flew to the gate,
      And thus accosted him:

    "What news? what news? your tidings tell;
      Tell me you must and shall--
    Say why bareheaded you are come,
      Or why you come at all?"

    Now Gilpin had a pleasant wit,
      And loved a timely joke;
    And thus unto the calender
      In merry guise he spoke:

    "I came because your horse would come:
      And, if I well forebode,
    My hat and wig will soon be here,
      They are upon the road."

    The calender, right glad to find
      His friend in merry pin,
    Returned him not a single word,
      But to the house went in;

    Whence straight he came with hat and wig,
      A wig that flowed behind,
    A hat not much the worse for wear,
      Each comely in its kind.

    He held them up, and in his turn
      Thus showed his ready wit,
    "My head is twice as big as yours,
      They therefore needs must fit.

    "But let me scrape the dirt away,
      That hangs upon your face;

    And stop and eat, for well you may
      Be in a hungry case."

    Said John, "It is my wedding-day,
      And all the world would stare
    If wife should dine at Edmonton,
      And I should dine at Ware."

    So turning to his horse, he said,
      "I am in haste to dine;
    'Twas for your pleasure you came here,
      You shall go back for mine."

    Ah! luckless speech, and bootless boast!
      For which he paid full dear;
    For while he spake, a braying ass
      Did sing most loud and clear;

    Whereat his horse did snort, as he
      Had heard a lion roar,
    And galloped off with all his might,
      As he had done before.

    Away went Gilpin, and away
      Went Gilpin's hat and wig:
    He lost them sooner than at first,
      For why--they were too big.

    Now Mistress Gilpin, when she saw
      Her husband posting down
    Into the country far away,
      She pulled out half-a-crown;

    And thus unto the youth she said
      That drove them to the "Bell,"
    "This shall be yours when you bring back
      My husband safe and well."

    The youth did ride, and soon did meet
      John coming back amain;
    Whom in a trice he tried to stop,
      By catching at his rein;

    But not performing what he meant,
      And gladly would have done,
    The frighted steed he frighted more,
      And made him faster run.

    Away went Gilpin, and away
      Went postboy at his heels,
    The postboy's horse right glad to miss
      The lumbering of the wheels.

    Six gentlemen upon the road,
      Thus seeing Gilpin fly,
    With postboy scampering in the rear,
      They raised the hue and cry.

    "Stop thief! stop thief! a highwayman!"
      Not one of them was mute;
    And all and each that passed that way
      Did join in the pursuit.

    And now the turnpike-gates again
      Flew open in short space;

    The toll-men thinking, as before,
      That Gilpin rode a race.

    And so he did, and won it too,
      For he got first to town;
    Nor stopped till where he had got up,
      He did again get down.

    Now let us sing, Long live the King,
      And Gilpin, long live he;
    And when he next doth ride abroad,
      May I be there to see.

    Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
    How I wonder what you are!
    Up above the world so high.
    Like a diamond in the sky.

    When the blazing sun is gone,
    When he nothing shines upon,
    Then you show your little light,
    Twinkle, twinkle, all the night.

    Then the traveller in the dark
    Thanks you for your tiny spark:
    How could he see where to go,
    If you did not twinkle so?

    In the dark blue sky you keep,
    Often through my curtains peep,
    For you never shut your eye,
    Till the sun is in the sky.

    As your bright and tiny spark
    Lights the traveller in the dark,
    Though I know not what you are,
    Twinkle, twinkle, little star.

    Charley, Charley, stole the barley
      Out of the baker's shop;
    The baker came out, and gave him a clout,
      And made poor Charley hop.

    A, B, C, tumble down D,
    The cat's in the cupboard and can't see me.

    Elizabeth, Elspeth, Betsy, and Bess,
    They all went together to seek a bird's nest,
    They found a bird's nest with five eggs in;
    They all took one, and left four in.

    Up hill and down dale,
    Butter is made in every vale;
    And if Nancy Cook
    Is a good girl,
    She shall have a spouse,
    And make butter anon,
    Before her old grandmother
    Grows a young man.

    To market, to market, a gallop, a trot,
    To buy some meat to put in the pot;
    Threepence a quarter, fourpence a side,
    If it hadn't been killed it must have died.

    Apple-pie, pudding, and pancake,
    All begins with A.

    My little old man and I fell out;
    I'll tell you what 'twas all about,--
    I had money and he had none,
    And that's the way the noise begun.

    I love little Pussy, her coat is so warm,
    And if I don't hurt her, she'll do me no harm.
    I'll sit by the fire, and give her some food,
    And Pussy will love me, because I am good.

    Taffy was a Welshman,
      Taffy was a thief,
    Taffy came to my house,
      And stole a leg of beef.

    I went to Taffy's house,
      Taffy was not at home;
    Taffy came to my house
      And stole a marrow-bone.

    I went to Taffy's house,
      Taffy was in bed;
    I took the marrow-bone,
      And broke Taffy's head.

    A farmer went trotting upon his grey mare,
                         Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
    With his daughter behind him so rosy and fair,
                         Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

    A raven cried croak! and they all tumbled down,
                         Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
    The mare broke her knees, and the farmer his crown,
                         Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

    The mischievous raven flew laughing away,
                          Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
    And vowed he would serve them the same the next day,
                          Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

    Little Betty Blue
    Lost her holiday shoe,
    What can little Betty do?
    Give her another
    To match the other,
    And then she may walk in two.

    Hush-a-bye, baby, lie still with thy daddy,
      Thy mammy is gone to the mill,
    To get some meal to bake a cake,
      So pray, my dear baby, lie still.

    You shall have an apple,
    You shall have a plum,
    You shall have a rattle-basket,
    When papa comes home.

A MAN OF WORDS AND NOT OF DEEDS.

    A MAN of words and not of deeds
    Is like a garden full of weeds;
    And when the weeds begin to grow,
    It's like a garden full of snow;
    And when the snow begins to fall,
    It's like a bird upon the wall;
    And when the bird away does fly,
    It's like an eagle in the sky;
    And when the sky begins to roar,
    It's like a lion at the door;
    And when the door begins to crack,
    It's like a stick across your back;
    And when your back begins to smart,
    It's like a penknife in your heart;
    And when your heart begins to bleed,
    You're dead, and dead, and dead indeed.

      Poor Dog Bright,
    Ran off with all his might,
    Because the cat was after him,
      Poor Dog Bright.

      Poor Cat Fright,
    Ran off with all her might,
    Because the dog was after her,
      Poor Cat Fright.

    As I was going up Pippin Hill,
      Pippin Hill was dirty,
    There I met a pretty miss,
      And she dropped me a curtsey.

    Early to bed, and early to rise,
    Is the way to be healthy, wealthy, and wise.

    Old woman, old woman, shall we go a-shearing?
    Speak a little louder, sir, I am very thick o' hearing.
    Old woman, old woman, shall I kiss you dearly?
    Thank you, kind sir, I hear very clearly.

    The Cuckoo's a bonny bird,
      She sings as she flies,
    She brings us good tidings,
      And tells us no lies.
    She sucks little birds' eggs,
      To make her voice clear,
    And never cries "Cuckoo!"
      Till spring-time of the year.

    Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake, baker's man,
    Bake me a cake as fast as you can;
    Prick it and pat it, and mark it with G;
    And put it in the oven for Teddy and me.

    Pussy-cat ate the dumplings, the dumplings;
      Pussy-cat ate the dumplings.
    Mamma stood by, and cried, "Oh, fie!
      Why did you eat the dumplings?"

    Needles and pins, needles and pins,
    When a man marries his trouble begins.

    For every evil under the sun,
    There is a remedy, or there is none.
    If there be one, try and find it;
    If there be none, never mind it.

    Three children sliding on the ice,
      All on a summer's day,
    As it fell out they all fell in,
      The rest they ran away.

    Now had these children been at home,
      Or sliding on dry ground,
    Ten thousand pounds to one penny
      They had not all been drowned.

    You parents all that children have,
      And you, too, that have none,
    If you would have them safe abroad,
      Pray keep them safe at home.

THE WONDERFUL DERBY RAM.

    AS I was going to Derby all on a market day,
    I met the finest ram, sir, that ever was fed upon hay;
          Upon hay, upon hay, upon hay;
    I met the finest ram, sir, that ever was fed upon hay.

    This ram was fat behind, sir, this ram was fat before;
    This ram was ten yards round, sir; indeed he was no more;
          No more, no more, no more;
    This ram was ten yards round, sir; indeed he was no more.

    The horns that grew on his head, sir, they were so wondrous high,
    As I've been plainly told, sir, they reached up to the sky;
          The sky, the sky, the sky;
    As I've been plainly told, sir, they reached up to the sky.

    The tail that grew from his back, sir, was six yards and an ell;
    And it was sent to Derby to toll the market bell;
          The bell, the bell, the bell;
    And it was sent to Derby to toll the market bell.

    My Lady Wind, my Lady Wind,
    Went round about the house, to find
      A chink to get her foot in;
    She tried the keyhole in the door,
    She tried the crevice in the floor,
      And drove the chimney soot in.

    And then one night when it was dark,
    She blew up such a tiny spark,
      That all the house was pothered;
    From it she raised up such a flame
    As flamed away to Belting Lane,
      And White Cross folks were smothered.

    And thus when once, my little dears,
    A whisper reaches itching ears,
      The same will come, you'll find;
    Take my advice, restrain your tongue,
    Remember what old Nurse has sung
      Of busy Lady Wind.

      Bow-wow-wow!
    Whose dog art thou?
    Little Tom Tucker's dog.
      Bow-wow-wow!

    Let us go to the woods, says this pig.
    What to do there? says this pig.
    To seek mamma, says this pig.
    What to do with her? says this pig.
    To kiss her, to kiss her, says this pig.

JENNY SHALL HAVE A NEW BONNET.

    JENNY shall have a new bonnet,
      And Jenny shall go to the fair,
    And Jenny shall have a blue ribbon
      To tie up her bonny brown hair.

    And why may not I love Jenny?
      And why may not Jenny love me?
    And why may not I love Jenny,
      As well as another body?

    And here's a leg for a stocking,
      And here is a leg for a shoe,
    And she has a kiss for her daddy,
      And two for her mammy, I trow.

    And why may not I love Jenny?
      And why may not Jenny love me?
    And why may not I love Jenny,
      As well as another body?

    Nievie, nievie, nicknack,
    Which hand will ye tak'?
    Tak' the right, or tak' the wrang,
    I'll beguile ye, if I can.

      Oh, mother, I'm to be married to Mr. Punchinello;
      To Mr. Pun, to Mr. Chin, to Mr. Nel, to Mr. Lo,
    Mr. Pun, Mr. Chin, Mr. Nel, Mr. Lo, to Mr. Punchinello.

    Rain, rain, go to Spain,
    And never come back again.

    Up hill spare me,
    Down hill 'ware me,
    On level ground spare me not,
    And in the stable forget me not.

    When little Fred went to bed,
      He always said his prayers;
    He kissed mamma, and then papa,
      And straightway went upstairs.

    Bless you, bless you, bonny bee:
    Say, when will your wedding be?
    If it be to-morrow day,
    Take your wings and fly away.

    Jack Sprat's pig,
      He was not very little,
    Nor yet very big;
      He was not very lean,
    He was not very fat,
      He'll do well for a grunt,
    Says little Jack Sprat.

    Rain, rain,
      Go away,
    Come again
      April day;
    Little Johnny
      Wants to play.

    A little cock sparrow sat on a tree,
    Looking as happy as happy could be,
    Till a boy came by with his bow and arrow,
    Says he, I will shoot the little cock sparrow.

    His body will make me a nice little stew,
    And his giblets will make me a little pie, too.
    Says the little cock sparrow, I'll be shot if I stay,
    So he clapped his wings, and flew away.

    The rose is red, the violet's blue;
    The pink is sweet, and so are you.

    "We'll go a-shooting," says Robin to Bobbin,
    "We'll go a-shooting," says Richard to John;
    "We'll go a-shooting," says John, all alone;
    "We'll go a-shooting," says every one.

    Valentine, oh, Valentine,
      Curl your locks as I do mine;
    Two before and two behind;
      Good morrow to you, Valentine.

    Mr. Isbister, and Betsy his sister,
      Resolve upon giving a treat;
        So letters they write,
        Their friends to invite
    To their house in Great Camomile Street.

    Little Bo-peep fell fast asleep,
      And dreamt she heard them bleating;
    But when she awoke she found it a joke,
      For still they all were fleeting.

    Then up she took her little crook,
      Determined for to find them;
    She found 'em indeed, but it made her heart bleed,
      For they'd left their tails behind 'em.

    It happened one day, as Bo-peep did stray
      Unto a meadow hard by,
    There she espied their tails, side by side,
      All hung on a tree to dry.

    Then she heaved a sigh, and wiped her eye,
      And ran o'er hill and dale-o,
    And tried what she could, as a shepherdess should,
      To tack to each sheep its tail-o.

    As I was going to St. Ives,
    I met a man with seven wives,
    Every wife had seven sacks,
    Every sack had seven cats,
    Every cat had seven kits.
    Kits, cats, sacks, and wives,
    How many were there going to St. Ives?

    Go to bed first, a golden purse;
    Go to bed second, a golden pheasant;
    Go to bed third, a golden bird.

    There was an old woman, and what do you think?
    She lived upon nothing but victuals and drink;
    Victuals and drink were the chief of her diet,
    Yet the plaguey old woman would never be quiet.

    She went to the baker's to buy some bread;
    And when she came home her husband was dead.
    She went to the clerk, to toll the great bell;
    And when she came back, her husband was well.

    Some little mice sat in a barn to spin,
    Pussy came by, and she popped her head in.
    "Shall I come in and cut your threads off?"
    "Oh, no, kind sir, you will snap our heads off."

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes:

There seemed to be no rhyme nor reason to which poems began with
smallcaps, (represented in this text version as ALLCAPS), and which did
not. Without a clear pattern to follow, this was retained as printed.

Page 82, word "a" added to text. Original read (There was jockey) now
reads (There was a jockey)

COPYRIGHT

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

Mother Goose.

                  MOTHER GOOSE
                     or the
               OLD NURSERY RHYMES

                 Illustrated by
                 KATE GREENAWAY

                     LONDON
           FREDERICK WARNE AND CO. LTD
                  AND NEW YORK

            PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

                                             PAGE

       *       *       *       *       *

Hark! hark! the dogs bark,
The beggars are coming to town;
Some in rags and some in tags,
And some in a silken gown.
Some gave them white bread,
And some gave them brown,
And some gave them a good horse-whip,
And sent them out of the town.

Little Jack Horner sat in the corner,
Eating a Christmas pie;
He put in his thumb, and pulled out a plum,
And said, oh! what a good boy am I.

There was an old woman
Lived under a hill;
And if she's not gone,
She lives there still.

Diddlty, diddlty, dumpty,
The cat ran up the plum tree,
Give her a plum, and down she'll come,
Diddlty, diddlty, dumpty.

We're all jolly boys, and we're coming with a noise,
Our stockings shall be made
Of the finest silk,
And our tails shall trail the ground.

To market, to market, to buy a plum cake,
Home again, home again, market is late;
To market, to market, to buy a plum bun,
Home again, home again, market is done.

Elsie Marley has grown so fine,
She won't get up to serve the swine;
But lies in bed till eight or nine,
And surely she does take her time.

Daffy-down-dilly has come up to town,
In a yellow petticoat and a green gown.

Jack Sprat could eat no fat,
His wife could eat no lean;
And so between them both,
They licked the platter clean.

Lucy Locket, lost her pocket,
Kitty Fisher found it;
There was not a penny in it,
But a ribbon round it.

Cross Patch, lift the latch,
Sit by the fire and spin;
Take a cup, and drink it up,
Then call your neighbours in.

Johnny shall have a new bonnet,
And Johnny shall go to the fair;
And Johnny shall have a blue ribbon,
To tie up his bonny brown hair.

There was a little boy and a little girl
Lived in an alley;
Says the little boy to the little girl,
"Shall I, oh, shall I?"
Says the little girl to the little boy,
"What shall we do?"
Says the little boy to the little girl,
"I will kiss you!"

Draw a pail of water,
For my lady's daughter;
My father's a king, and my mother's a queen,
My two little sisters are dressed in green,
Stamping grass and parsley,
Marigold leaves and daisies.
One rush! two rush!
Pray thee, fine lady, come under my bush.

Jack and Jill
Went up the hill,
To fetch a pail of water;
Jack fell down
And broke his crown,
And Jill came tumbling after.

Little Bo-Peep has lost her sheep,
And can't tell where to find them;
Leave them alone, and they'll come home,
And bring their tails behind them.

Polly put the kettle on,
Polly put the kettle on,
Polly put the kettle on,
We'll all have tea.
Sukey take it off again,
Sukey take it off again,
Sukey take it off again,
They're all gone away.

Little Tommy Tittlemouse,
Lived in a little house;
He caught fishes
In other men's ditches.

Tell Tale Tit,
Your tongue shall be slit;
And all the dogs in the town
Shall have a little bit.

Goosey, goosey, gander,
Where shall I wander?
Up stairs, down stairs,
And in my lady's chamber:
There I met an old man,
Who would not say his prayers;
Take him by the left leg,
Throw him down the stairs.

Willy boy, Willy boy, where are you going?
I will go with you, if I may.
I'm going to the meadow to see them a mowing,
I'm going to help them make the hay.

Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
How does your garden grow?
With silver bells, and cockle shells,
And cowslips all of a row.

Bonny lass, pretty lass, wilt thou be mine?
Thou shall not wash dishes,
Nor yet serve the swine;
Thou shalt sit on a cushion, and sew a fine seam,
And thou shalt eat strawberries, sugar, and cream!

A dillar, a dollar,
A ten o'clock scholar;
What makes you come so soon?
You used to come at ten o'clock,
But now you come at noon!

Little Betty Blue,
Lost her holiday shoe.
What will poor Betty do?
Why, give her another,
To match the other,
And then she will walk in two.

Billy boy blue, come blow me your horn,
The sheep's in the meadow, the cow's in the corn;
Is that the way you mind your sheep,
Under the haycock fast asleep!

Girls and boys come out to play,
The moon it shines as bright as day;
Leave your supper, and leave your sleep,
And come to your playmates in the street;
Come with a whoop, come with a call,
Come with a good will, or come not at all;
Up the ladder and down the wall,
A halfpenny loaf will serve us all.

Here am I, little jumping Joan,
When nobody's with me,
I'm always alone.

Ride a cock-horse,
To Banbury-cross,
To see little Johnny
Get on a white horse.

Rock-a-bye baby,
Thy cradle is green;
Father's a nobleman,
Mother's a queen.
And Betty's a lady,
And wears a gold ring;
And Johnny's a drummer,
And drums for the king.

Little Tom Tucker,
He sang for his supper.
What did he sing for?
Why, white bread and butter.
How can I cut it without a knife?
How can I marry without a wife?

Little Miss Muffet,
Sat on a tuffet,
Eating some curds and whey;
There came a great spider,
And sat down beside her,
And frightened Miss Muffet away.

Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall,
Humpty Dumpty had a great fall.

See-Saw-Jack in the hedge,
Which is the way to London Bridge?

Little lad, little lad,
Where wast thou born?
Far off in Lancashire,
Under a thorn;
Where they sup sour milk
From a ram's horn.

As I was going up Pippin Hill,
Pippin Hill was dirty;
There I met a sweet pretty lass,
And she dropped me a curtsey.

Little maid, little maid,
Whither goest thou?
Down in the meadow
To milk my cow.

My mother, and your mother,
Went over the way;
Said my mother, to your mother,
"It's chop-a-nose day."

All around the green gravel,
The grass grows so green,
And all the pretty maids are fit to be seen;
Wash them in milk,
Dress them in silk,
And the first to go down shall be married.

One foot up, the other foot down,
That's the way to London town.

Georgie Peorgie, pudding and pie,
Kissed the girls and made them cry;
When the girls begin to play,
Georgie Peorgie runs away.

As Tommy Snooks, and Bessie Brooks
Were walking out one Sunday;
Says Tommy Snooks to Bessie Brooks,
"To-morrow--will be Monday."

Tom, Tom, the piper's son,
He learnt to play when he was young,
He with his pipe made such a noise,
That he pleased all the girls and boys.

Ring-a-ring-a-roses,
A pocket full of posies;
Hush! hush! hush! hush!
We're all tumbled down.

            ENGRAVED AND PRINTED BY
               EDMUND EVANS, LTD.
             154 CLERKENWELL ROAD,

          THE
          BAD CHILD'S
          BOOK OF
          BEASTS

          Verses by
          H. BELLOC

          Pictures by
          B. T. B.

          DUCKWORTH,
          3 HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN

          Child! do not throw this book about;
            Refrain from the unholy pleasure
          Of cutting all the pictures out!
            Preserve it as your chiefest treasure.

          Child, have you never heard it said
            That you are heir to all the ages?
          Why, then, your hands were never made
            To tear these beautiful thick pages!

          Your little hands were made to take
            The better things and leave the worse ones.
          They also may be used to shake
            The Massive Paws of Elder Persons.

          And when your prayers complete the day,
            Darling, your little tiny hands
          Were also made, I think, to pray
            For men that lose their fairylands.

         _Made and Printed in Great Britain by The Camelot
         Press Limited, London and Southampton_

DEDICATION

          To

          Master EVELYN BELL
          Of Oxford

          Evelyn Bell,
          I love you well.

INTRODUCTION

          I CALL you bad, my little child,
            Upon the title page,
          Because a manner rude and wild
            Is common at your age.

          The Moral of this priceless work
            (If rightly understood)
          Will make you--from a little Turk--
            Unnaturally good.

          Do not as evil children do,
          Who on the slightest grounds
          Will imitate the Kangaroo,
          With wild unmeaning bounds:

          Do not as children badly bred,
            Who eat like little Hogs,
          And when they have to go to bed
            Will whine like Puppy Dogs:

          Who take their manners from the Ape,
            Their habits from the Bear,
          Indulge the loud unseemly jape,
            And never brush their hair.

          But so control your actions that
            Your friends may all repeat.
          'This child is dainty as the Cat,
            And as the Owl discreet.'

The Yak

          As a friend to the children
                             commend me the Yak.
            You will find it exactly the thing:
          It will carry and fetch,
                        you can ride on its back,

          Or lead it about
            with a string.

          The Tartar who dwells on the plains of Thibet
            (A desolate region of snow)
          Has for centuries made it a nursery pet,
            And surely the Tartar should know!

          Then tell your papa where the Yak can be got,
            And if he is awfully rich
          He will buy you the creature--
          or else
                  he will _not_.
          (I cannot be positive which.)

The Polar Bear

          The Polar Bear is unaware
            Of cold that cuts me through:
          For why? He has a coat of hair.
            I wish I had one too!

The Lion

          The Lion, the Lion, he dwells in the waste,
          He has a big head and a very small waist;
          But his shoulders are stark, and his jaws they are grim,
          And a good little child will not play with him.

The Tiger

          The Tiger on the other hand, is kittenish and mild,
          He makes a pretty playfellow for any little child;
          And mothers of large families (who claim to common sense)
          Will find a Tiger well repay the trouble and expense.

The Dromedary

          The Dromedary is a cheerful bird:
          I cannot say the same about the Kurd.

The Whale

          The Whale that wanders round the Pole
            Is not a table fish.
          You cannot bake or boil him whole
            Nor serve him in a dish;

          But you may cut his blubber up
              And melt it down for oil.
          And so replace the colza bean
            (A product of the soil).

          These facts should all be noted down
              And ruminated on,
          By every boy in Oxford town
              Who wants to be a Don.

The Camel

          "The Ship of the Desert."

The Hippopotamus

          I shoot the Hippopotamus
            with bullets made of platinum,
          Because if I use leaden ones
                  his hide is sure to flatten 'em.

The Dodo

          The Dodo used to walk around,
            And take the sun and air.
          The sun yet warms his native ground--

          The Dodo is not there!

          The voice which used to squawk and squeak
            Is now for ever dumb--

          Yet may you see his bones and beak
            All in the Mu-se-um.

The Marmozet

          The species Man and Marmozet
            Are intimately linked;
          The Marmozet survives as yet,
            But Men are all extinct.

The Camelopard

          The Camelopard, it is said
            By travellers (who never lie),
          He cannot stretch out straight in bed
            Because he is so high.
          The clouds surround his lofty head,
            His hornlets touch the sky.

          How shall
            I hunt this quadruped?
              I cannot tell!
                            Not I!

          (A picture of how people try
          And fail to hit that head so high.)
          I'll buy a little parachute
          (A common parachute with wings),
          I'll fill it full of arrowroot
          And other necessary things,
          And I will slay this fearful brute
          With stones and sticks and guns and slings.

          (A picture of how people shoot
          With comfort from a parachute.)

The Learned Fish

          This learned Fish has not sufficient brains
          To go into the water when it rains.

The Elephant

          When people call this beast to mind,
              They marvel more and more
          At such a +_LITTLE_+ tail behind,
          So _LARGE_ a trunk before.

The Big Baboon

          The Big Baboon is found upon
              The plains of Cariboo:
          He goes about
                        with nothing on
          (A shocking thing to do).

          But if he
              dressed respectably
          And let his whiskers grow,
          How like this Big Baboon would be
                 To Mister So-and-so!

The Rhinoceros

          Rhinoceros, your hide looks all undone,
          You do not take my fancy in the least:
          You have a horn where other brutes have none:
              Rhinoceros, you are an ugly beast.

The Frog

          Be kind and tender to the Frog,
              And do not call him names,
          As 'Slimy skin,' or 'Polly-wog,'
              Or likewise 'Ugly James,'
          Or 'Gap-a-grin,' or 'Toad-gone-wrong,'
              Or 'Bill Bandy-knees':
          The Frog is justly sensitive
              To epithets like these.

          No animal will more repay
              A treatment kind and fair;
          At least
                    so lonely people say
          Who keep a frog (and, by the way,
          They are extremely rare).

          Oh! My!

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Note: The original edition was well-illustrated. The
illustrations were scattered amongst the poetry. For ease of
readability, the poems have been put back together with every effort of
retaining the original style.

For the poem titled "The Elephant," a word in small-capitals is denoted

.WALTER.CRANE'S.
.PICTURE.BOOKS.

              .THE.
             .ABSURD.
              A.B.C

                     .JOHN.LANE.
                     .THE.BODLEY.HEAD.
                     .LONDON.&.NEW.
                     .YORK.

The absurd ABC originally published 1874.

A for the APPLE
  or Alphabet pie,
Which all get a slice of.
  Come taste it & try.

B is the BABY
  who gave Mr Bunting
Full many a long day's
  rabbit skin hunting.

C for the CAT
  that played on the fiddle,
When cows jumped higher than
  'Heigh Diddle Diddle!'

D for the DAME
  with her pig at the stile,
'Tis said they got over,
  but not yet a while.

E for the Englishman,
  ready to make fast
The giant who wanted to
  have him for breakfast.

F for the Frog in the story
  you know,
Begun with a wooing but
  ending in woe.

G for Goosey Gander
  who wandered upstairs,
And met the old man
  who objected to prayers.

H for poor Humpty who
  after his fall,
Felt obliged to resign his
  seat on the wall.

I for the Inn where they
  wouldn't give beer,
To one with too much
  and no money, I fear.

J does for poor Jack and
  also for Jill,
Who had so disastrous
  a tumble down hill.

K for calm Kitty, at dinner
  who sat,
While all the good folks
  watched the dog & the cat.

L for Little man, gun and
  bullets complete,
Who shot the poor duck, and
  was proud of the feat.

M for Miss Muffet, with
  that horrid spider,
Just dropped into tea and
  a chat beside her.

N for the Numerous children
  they who
Were often too much for
  their mother in Shoe.

O the Old person that
  cobwebs did spy,
And went up to sweep 'em
  Oh ever so high!

P for the Pie made of
  blackbirds to sing,
A song fit for supper
  a dish for a king.

Q for Queen Anne
  who sat in the sun
Till she, more than the lily
  resembled the bun

R stands for Richard &
  Robert, those men
Who didn't get up one
  fine morning till ten!

S for the Snail that showed
  wonderful fight,
Putting no less than twenty-four
  tailors to flight!

T stands for Tom, the son of
  the piper,
May his principles change
  as his years grow riper.

U for the Unicorn, keeping
  his eye on
The coveted crown, and
  'ts counsel the Lion.

V for the Victuals, including
  the drink,
The old woman lived on
  surprising to think!

W for the WOMAN
  who not over nice,
Made very short work
  of the three blind mice.

X is the X
  that is found upon buns,
Which, daughters not liking,
  may come in for sons.

Y for Yankee Doodle
  of ancient renown,
Both he & his pony
  that took him to town.

Z for the Zany
  who looked like a fool,
For when he was young
  he neglected his school.

       =================================

       =================================

  COPYRIGHT
  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

       =================================

Marigold Garden

By Kate Greenaway

       =================================

       =================================

Marigold Garden

Pictures and Rhymes

by

KATE GREENAWAY

London

FREDERICK WARNE & Co. Ltd.

& New York

       =================================

  You little girl,
  You little boy,
  With wondering eyes,
  That kindly look,
  In honour of
  Two noble names
  I send the offering
  Of this book.

Printed in U.S.A.

       =================================

SUSAN BLUE.

              Oh, Susan Blue,
              How do you do?
      Please may I go for a walk with you?
              Where shall we go?
              Oh, I know--
  Down in the meadow where the cowslips grow!

       =================================

BLUE SHOES.

  Little Blue Shoes
  Mustn't go
  Very far alone, you know
  Else she'll fall down,
  Or, lose her way;
  Fancy--what
  Would mamma say?
  Better put her little hand
  Under sister's wise command.
  When she's a little older grown
  Blue Shoes may go quite alone.

       =================================

STREET SHOW.

  Puff, puff, puff. How the trumpets blow
  All you little boys and girls come and see the show.
  One--two--three, the Cat runs up the tree;
  But the little Bird he flies away--
  "She hasn't got me!"

       =================================

TO THE SUN DOOR.

  They saw it rise in the morning,
    They saw it set at night,
  And they longed to go and see it,
    Ah! if they only might.

  The little soft white clouds heard them,
    And stepped from out of the blue;
  And each laid a little child softly
    Upon its bosom of dew.

  And they carried them higher and higher,
    And they nothing knew any more
  Until they were standing waiting
    In front of the round gold door.

  And they knocked, and called, and entreated,
    Whoever should be within;
  But all to no purpose, for no one
    Would hearken to let them in.

       =================================

THE DAISIES.

  You very fine Miss Molly,
    What will the daisies say,
  If you carry home so many
    Of their little friends to-day?

  Perhaps you take a sister,
    Perhaps you take a brother,
  Or two little daisies who
    Were fond of one another.

       =================================

THE DANCING FAMILY.

  Pray let me introduce you to
    This little dancing family;
  For morning, afternoon, and night
    They danced away so happily.

  They twirled round about,
    They turned their toes out;
  The people wondered what the noise
    Could all be about.

  They danced from early morning,
    Till very late at night;
  Both in-doors and out-of-doors,
    With very great delight.

  And every sort of dance they knew,
    From every country far away;
  And so it was no wonder that
    They should keep dancing all the day.

  So dancing--dancing--dancing,
    In sunshine or in rain;
  And when they all left off,
    Why then--they all began again.

       =================================

GOING TO SEE GRANDMAMMA.

  Little Molly and Damon
    Are walking so far,
  For they're going to see
    Their kind Grandmamma.

  And they very well know,
    When they get there she'll take
  From out of her cupboard
    Some very nice cake.

  And into her garden
    They know they may run,
  And pick some red currants,
    And have lots of fun.

  So Damon to doggie
    Says, "How do you do?"
  And asks his mamma
    If he may not go too.

       =================================

WISHES.

  Oh, if you were a little boy,
    And I was a little girl--
  Why you would have some whiskers grow
    And then my hair would curl.

  Ah! if I could have whiskers grow,
    I'd let you have my curls;
  But what's the use of wishing it--
    Boys never can be girls.

       =================================

FIRST ARRIVALS.

  It is a Party, do you know,
  And there they sit, all in a row,
  Waiting till the others come,
  To begin to have some fun.

  Hark! the bell rings sharp and clear,
  Other little friends appear;
  And no longer all alone
  They begin to feel at home.

  To them a little hard is Fate,
  Yet better early than too late;
  Fancy getting there forlorn,
  With the tea and cake all gone.

  Wonder what they'll have for tea;
  Hope the jam is strawberry.
  Wonder what the dance and game;
  Feel so very glad they came.

  Very Happy may you be,
  May you much enjoy your tea.

       =================================

WHEN WE WENT OUT WITH GRANDMAMMA.

  When we went out with Grandmamma--
    Mamma said for a treat--
  Oh, dear, how stiff we had to walk
    As we went down the street.

  One on each side we had to go,
    And never laugh or loll;
  I carried Prim, her Spaniard dog,
    And Tom--her parasol.

  If _I_ looked right--_if Tom_ looked left--
    "Tom--Susan--I'm ashamed;
  And little Prim, I'm sure, is shocked,
    To hear such naughties named."

  She said we had no manners,
    If we ever talked or sung;
  "You should have seen," said Grandmamma,
    "_Me_ walk, when _I_ was young."

  She told us--oh, so often--
    How little girls and boys,
  In the good days when she was young,
    Never made any noise.

  She said they never wished then
    To play--oh, indeed!
  They learnt to sew and needlework,
    Or else to write and read.

  She said her mother never let
    Her speak a word at meals;
  "But now," said Grandmamma, "you'd think
    That children's tongues had wheels

  "So fast they go--clack, clack, clack, clack;
    Now listen well, I pray,
  And let me see you both improve
    From what I've said to-day."

       =================================

TO MYSTERY LAND.

  Oh, dear, how will it end?
  Peggy and Susie how naughty you are.
  You little know where you are,
  Going so far, and so high,
  Nearly up to the sky.
  Perhaps it's a Giant who lives there,
  And perhaps it's a lovely Princess.
  But you very well know
  You've no business to go;
  You'll get yourselves into a mess.

  Oh, dear, I'm sure it is true;
  Whatever on earth can it matter to you?
  For you know it--oh, fie--
  That it's naughty to pry
  Into other's affairs--
  Into other folks houses to go,
  Where you know
  You're not asked.
  So you'd better come back
  While there's time, it is plain.
  Go home--and be never
  So naughty again.

       =================================

FROM MARKET.

      Oh who'll give us Posies,
      And Garlands of Roses,
      To twine round our heads so gay?
      For here we come bringing
      You many good wishes to-day.
  From market--from market--from market--
      We all come up from market.

       =================================

LITTLE PHILLIS.

  I am a very little girl,
    I think that I've turned two;
  And if you'd like to know my name
    I'd like to tell it you.

  They always call me Baby,
    But Phillis is my name.
  No--no one ever gave it me,
    I think it only came.

  I've got a pretty tulip
    In my little flower-bed;
  If you would like I'll give it you--
    It's yellow, striped with red.

  I've got a little kitten, but
    I can't give that away,
  She likes to play with me _so_ much;
    She's gone to sleep to-day.

  And I've got a nice new dolly,
    Shall I fetch her out to you?
  She's got such pretty shoes on,
    And her bonnet's trimmed with blue.

  You'd like to take her home with you?
    Oh, _no_, she mustn't go;
  Good-bye--I want to run now,
    You walk along so slow.

       =================================

THE FOUR PRINCESSES.

  Four Princesses lived in a Green Tower--
    A Bright Green Tower in the middle of the sea;
  And no one could think--oh, no one could think--
    Who the Four Princesses could be.

  One looked to the North, and one to the South,
    And one to the East, and one to the West;
  They were all so pretty, so very pretty,
    You could not tell which was the prettiest.

  Their curls were golden--their eyes were blue,
    And their voices were sweet as a silvery bell;
  And four white birds around them flew,
    But where they came from--_who_ could tell?

  Oh, who could tell? for no one knew,
    And not a word could you hear them say.
  But the sound of their singing, like church bells ringing,
    Would sweetly float as they passed away.

  For under the sun, and under the stars,
    They often sailed on the distant sea;
  Then in their Green Tower and Roses bower
    They lived again--a mystery.

       =================================

WHEN YOU AND I GROW UP.

  When you and I
  Grow up--Polly--
    I mean that you and me,
  Shall go sailing in a big ship
    Right over all the sea.
  We'll wait till we are older,
    For if we went to-day,
  You know that we might lose ourselves,
    And never find the way.

       =================================

IN AN APPLE TREE.

  In September, when the apples were red,
  To Belinda I said,
  "Would you like to go away
  To Heaven, or stay
  Here in this orchard full of trees
  All your life?" And she said, "If you please
  I'll stay here--where I know,
  And the flowers grow."

       =================================

THE WEDDING BELLS.

  The Wedding Bells were ringing,
    And Monday was the day,
  And all the little ladies
    Were there so fresh and gay.

  And up--up--up the steps they went,
    The wedding fine to see;
  And the Roses were all for the Bride,
    So pretty--so pretty was she.

       =================================

THE LITTLE LONDON GIRL.

  In my little Green House, quite content am I,
  When the hot sun pours down from the sky;
  For oh, I love the country--the beautiful country.
  Who'd live in a London street when there's the country?

  I live in a London street, then I long and long
  To be the whole day the sweet Flowers among
  Instead of tall chimney-pots up in the sky,
  The joy of seeing Birds and Dragon Flies go by.

  At home I lie in bed, and cannot go to sleep,
  For the sound of cart-wheels upon the hard street.
  But here my eyes close up to no sound of anything
  Except it is to hear the nightingales sing.

  And then I see the Chickens and the Geese go walking,
  I hear the Pigs and the Ducks all talking.
  And the Red and the Spotted Cows they stare at me,
  As if they wondered whoever I could be.

  I see the little Lambs out with their mothers--
  Such pretty little white young sisters and brothers.
  Oh, I'll stay in the country, and make a daisy chain,
  And never go back to London again.

       =================================

TO BABY.

  Oh, what shall my blue eyes go see?
    Shall it be pretty Quack-Quack to-day?
  Or the Peacock upon the Yew Tree?
    Or the dear little white Lambs at play?
            Say Baby.
  For Baby is such a young Petsy,
    And Baby is such a sweet Dear.
  And Baby is growing quite old now--
    She's just getting on for a year.

       =================================

WILLY AND HIS SISTER.

  Willy said to his sister,
    "Please may I go with you?"
  She said, "You must behave
    Very nicely if you do."

  "Please will you take me then
    To look at the mill?"
  "Yes," she said, "because you are
    So very good--I will."

  "The miller he is
    So very white and kind;
  And sprinkled all over
    With the flour they grind.

  "And the big heaps of corn
    That lie upon the floor;
  He will let me play with those
    I am quite sure.

  "I like to hear the wheel
    Make such a rushing sound,
  And see the pretty water
    Go round, and round, and round.

  "So take me to the mill,
    For then you shall see
  What a very, very good boy
    I really mean to be."

       =================================

AT SCHOOL.

  Five little Girls, sitting on a form,
  Five little Girls, with lessons to learn,
  Five little Girls, who, I'm afraid,
  Won't know them a bit when they have to be said.

  For little eyes are given to look
  Anywhere else than on their book;
  And little thoughts are given to stray
  Anywhere--ever so far away.

       =================================

HAPPY DAYS.

  "Are you going next week to see Phillis and Phoebe?
    Phillis on Monday will be just fourteen.
  She says we shall all have our tea in the garden,
    And afterwards have some nice games on the green.

  "I wanted a new frock, but mother said, 'No,'
    So I must be content with my old one you see.
  But then white is so pretty, and kind Aunt Matilda
    Has sent down a beautiful necklace for me."

  "Oh, yes, I am going, and Peggy is going,
    And mother is making us new frocks to wear;
  I shall have my red sash and my hat with pink ribbons--
    I know all the girls will be smart who are there.

  "And then, too, we're going to each take a nosegay--
    The larger the better--for Phillis to say
  That all her friends love her, and wish her so happy,
    And bring her sweet flowers upon her birthday.

  "And won't it be lovely, in beautiful sunshine,
    The table spread under the great apple tree,
  To see little Phillis--that dear little Phillis--
    Look smiling all round as she pours out the tea!"

       =================================

THE LITTLE QUEEN'S COMING.

      With Roses--red Roses,
      We'll pelt her with Roses,
  And Lilies--white Lilies we'll drop at her feet;
      The little Queen's coming,
      The people are running--
  The people are running to greet and to meet.

      Then clash out a welcome,
      Let all the bells sound, come,
  To give her a welcoming proud and sweet.
      How her blue eyes will beam,
      And her golden curls gleam,
  When the sound of our singing rings down the street.

       =================================

ON THE WALL TOP.

  Dancing and prancing to town we go,
  On the top of the wall of the town we go.
  Shall we talk to the stars, or talk to the moon,
  Or run along home to our dinner so soon?

       =================================

ON THE WALL TOP.

  So high--so high on the wall we run,
  The nearer the sky--why, the nearer the sun,
  If you give me one penny, I'll give you two,
  For that's the way good neighbours do.

       =================================

TIP-A-TOE.

  Tip-a-Toe,
  See them go;
  One, two, three--
  Chloe, Prue, and me;
  Up and down,
  To the town.
  A Lord was there,
  And the Lady fair.
  And what did they sing?
  Oh, "Ring-a-ding-ding;"
  And the Black Crow flew off
  With the Lady's Ring.

       =================================

MAMMAS AND BABIES.

  "My Polly is so very good,
    Belinda never cries;
  My Baby often goes to sleep,
    See how she shuts her eyes.

  "Dear Mrs. Lemon tell me when
    Belinda goes to school;
  And what time does she go to bed?"
    "Well, eight o'clock's the rule.

  "But now and then, just for a treat,
    I let her wait awhile;
  You shake your head--why, wouldn't you?
    Do look at Baby's smile!"

  "Dear Mrs. Primrose will you come
    One day next week to tea?
  Of course bring Rosalinda, and
    That darling--Rosalie."

  "Dear Mrs. Cowslip, you _are_ kind;
    My little folks, I know,
  Will be so very pleased to come;
    Dears--tell Mrs. Cowslip so.

  "Oh, do you know--perhaps you've not heard--
    She had a dreadful fright;
  My Daisy with the measles
    Kept me up every night.

  "And then I've been so worried--
    Clarissa had a fit;
  And the doctor said he couldn't
    In the least account for it."

       =================================

MY LITTLE GIRLIE.

  Little girlie tell to me
  What your wistful blue eyes see?
  Why you like to stand so high,
  Looking at the far off sky.

  Does a tiny Fairy flit
  In the pretty blue of it?
  Or is it that you hope so soon
  To see the rising yellow Moon?

  Or is it--as I think I've heard--
  You're looking for a little Bird
  To come and sit upon a spray,
  And sing the summer night away?

       =================================

THE CATS HAVE COME TO TEA.

  What did she see--oh, what did she see,
  As she stood leaning against the tree?
  Why all the Cats had come to tea.

  What a fine turn out--from round about,
  All the houses had let them out,
  And here they were with scamper and shout.

  "Mew--mew--mew!" was all they could say,
  And, "We hope we find you well to-day."

  Oh, what should she do--oh, what should she do?
  What a lot of milk they would get through;
  For here they were with "Mew--mew--mew!"

  She didn't know--oh, she didn't know,
  If bread and butter they'd like or no;
  They might want little mice, oh! oh! oh!

  Dear me--oh, dear me,
  All the cats had come to tea.

       =================================

THE TEA PARTY.

  In the pleasant green Garden
    We sat down to tea;
  "Do you take sugar?" and
    "Do you take milk?"
  She'd got a new gown on--
    A smart one of silk.
  We all were so happy
    As happy could be,
  On that bright Summer's day
    When she asked us to tea.

       =================================

UNDER ROSE ARCHES.

  Under Rose Arches to Rose Town--
    Rose Town on the top of the hill;
  For the Summer wind blows and music goes,
    And the violins sound shrill.

  Twist and twine Roses and Lilies,
    And little leaves green,
    Fit for a queen;
  Twist and twine Roses and Lilies.

  Oh, Roses shall be for her carpet,
    And her curtains of Roses so fair;
  And a Rosy crown, while far adown
    Floats her long golden hair.

  Twist and twine Roses and Lilies,
    And all the bells ring,
    And all the people sing;
  Twist and twine Roses and Lilies.

       =================================

A GENTEEL FAMILY.

  Some children are so naughty,
    And some are very good;
  But the Genteel Family
    Did always what it should.

  They put on gloves when they went out,
    And ran not in the street;
  And on wet days not one of them
    Had ever muddy feet.

  Then they were always so polite,
    And always thanked you so;
  And never threw their toys about,
    As naughty children do.

  They always learnt their lessons
    When it was time they should;
  And liked to eat up all their crusts--
    They were so very good.

  And then their frocks were never torn,
    Their tuckers always clean;
  And their hair so very tidy--
    Always quite fit to be seen.

  Then they made calls with their mamma
    And were so very neat;
  And learnt to bow becomingly
    When they met you in the street.

  And really they were everything
    That children ought to be;
  And well may be examples now
    For little you--and me.

       =================================

BABY MINE.

  Baby mine, over the trees;
    Baby mine, over the flowers;
  Baby mine, over the sunshine;
    Baby mine, over the showers.

  Baby mine, over the land;
    Baby mine, over the water.
  Oh, when had a mother before
    Such a sweet--such a sweet, little daughter!

       =================================

LITTLE GIRLS AND LITTLE LAMBS.

  In the May-time flowers grow;
  Little girls in meadows go;
  Little lambs frisk with delight,
  And in the green grass sleep at night.
  Little birds sing all the day,
  Oh, in such a happy way!
  All the day the sun is bright,
  Little stars shine all the night.
  The Cowslip says to the Primrose,
  "How soft the little Spring wind blows!"
  The Daisy and the Buttercup
  Sing every time that they look up.
  For beneath the sweet blue sky
  They see a pretty Butterfly;
  The Butterfly, when he looks down,
  Says, "What a pretty Flower Town!"

       =================================

FROM WONDER WORLD.

  Out of Wonder World I think you come;
  For in your eyes the wonder comes with you.
  The stars are the windows of Heaven,
  And sometimes I think you peep through.
  Oh, little girl, tell us do the Flowers
  Tell you secrets when they find you all alone?
  Or the Birds and Butterflies whisper
  Of things to us unknown?

  Or do angel voices speak to you so softly,
  When _we_ only hear a little wind sigh;
  And the peaceful dew of Heaven fall upon you
  When _we_ only see a white cloud passing by?

       =================================

CHILD'S SONG.

  The King and the Queen were riding
    Upon a Summer's day,
  And a Blackbird flew above them,
    To hear what they did say.

  The King said he liked apples,
    The Queen said she liked pears.
  And what shall we do to the Blackbird
    Who listens unawares.

       =================================

MISS MOLLY AND THE LITTLE FISHES.

  Oh, sweet Miss Molly,
  You're so fond
  Of Fishes in a little Pond.
  And perhaps they're glad
  To see you stare
  With such bright eyes
  Upon them there.
  And when your fingers and your thumbs
  Drop slowly in the small white crumbs
  I hope they're happy. Only this--
  When you've looked long enough, sweet miss.
  Then, most beneficent young giver,
  Restore them to their native river.

       =================================

THE LITTLE JUMPING GIRLS.

  Jump--jump--jump--
    Jump away
  From this town into
    The next, to-day.

  Jump--jump--jump--
    Jump over the moon;
  Jump all the morning,
    And all the noon.

  Jump--jump--jump--
    Jump all night;
  Won't our mothers
    Be in a fright?

  Jump--jump--jump--
    Over the sea;
  What wonderful wonders
    We shall see.

  Jump--jump--jump--
    And leave behind
  Everything evil
    That we may find.

  Jump--jump--jump--
    Jump far away;
  And all come home
    Some other day.

       =================================

RING-A-RING.

  Ring-a-ring of little boys.
    Ring-a-ring of girls;
  All around--all around,
    Twists and twirls.

  You are merry children;
    "Yes, we are."
  Where do you come from?
    "Not very far.

  "We live in the mountain,
    We live in the tree;
  And I live in the river-bed,
    And you won't catch me!"

       =================================

ON THE BRIDGE.

  If I could see a little fish--
  That is what I just now wish!
  I want to see his great round eyes
  Always open in surprise.

  I wish a water rat would glide
  Slowly to the other side;
  Or a dancing spider sit
  On the yellow flags a bit.

  I think I'll get some stones to throw,
  And watch the pretty circles show.
  Or shall we sail a flower-boat,
  And watch it slowly--slowly float?

  That's nice--because you never know
  How far away it means to go;
  And when to-morrow comes, you see,
  It may be in the great wide sea.

       =================================

BALL.

  One--two, is one to you:
  One--two--three, is one to me.
  Throw it fast or not at all,
  And mind you do not let it fall.

  Fairy Blue Eyes
    And Fairy Brown,
  And dear little Golden Curls,
    Look down.
  I say "Good-bye"--
    "Good-bye" with no pain--
  Till some happy day
    We meet again!

       =================================

Original wood block designs engraved by Edmund Evans Limited

       =================================

       =================================

       =================================Proofreaders

REQUIRED POEMS
FOR READING
AND MEMORIZING

THIRD AND FOURTH GRADES
Prescribed by State Courses
of Study

FOREWORD

Practically every state course of study gives a list of poems from which
it is required that selection be made for reading or memorizing. These
lists and their grading vary in the different states, although the same
poems are used in many of them and there are some which are required
in every state.

In the preparation of this book the lists of the third and fourth grade
poems prescribed by the syllabi of twelve states have been examined and
the contents have been made up from these. The breadth of this method of
selection insures the inclusion in this volume of a large proportion of
the required poems for every state. Since the grading in different states
varies so widely, teachers will find included, also, many poems which in
their own particular states are required in other grades. It is hoped
that this volume will be of real service to teachers in providing a
collection of "required poems" in a form convenient for school use.

THE PUBLISHERS.

Required Poems for Third
and Fourth Grades

POEMS BY
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

AUTUMN FIRES

In the other gardens
  And all up the vale,
From the autumn bonfires
  See the smoke trail!

Pleasant summer over
  And all the summer flowers;
The red fire blazes,
  The grey smoke towers.

Sing a song of seasons!
  Something bright in all!
Flowers in the summer,
  Fires in the fall!

THE UNSEEN PLAYMATE

When children are playing alone on the green,
In comes the playmate that never was seen.
When children are happy and lonely and good,
The Friend of the Children comes out of the wood.

Nobody heard him and nobody saw,
His is a picture you never could draw,
But he's sure to be present, abroad or at home,
When children are happy and playing alone.

He lies in the laurels, he runs on the grass,
He sings when you tinkle the musical glass;
Whene'er you are happy and cannot tell why,
The Friend of the Children is sure to be by!

He loves to be little, he hates to be big,
'Tis he that inhabits the caves that you dig;
'Tis he when you play with your soldiers of tin
That sides with the Frenchmen and never can win.

'Tis he, when at night you go off to your bed,
Bids you go to your sleep and not trouble your head;
For wherever they're lying, in cupboard or shelf,
'Tis he will take care of your playthings himself!

THE LAND OF STORY-BOOKS

At evening when the lamp is lit,
Around the fire my parents sit.
They sit at home, and talk and sing,
And do not play at anything.

Now, with my little gun, I crawl
All in the dark along the wall,
And follow round the forest track
Away behind the sofa back.

There in the night, where none can spy,
All in my hunter's camp I lie,
And play at books that I have read,
Till it is time to go to bed.

These are the hills, these are the woods,
These are my starry solitudes,
And there the river by whose brink
The roaring lions come to drink.

I see the others far away,
As if in firelit camp they lay,
And I, like to an Indian scout,
Around their party prowled about.

So, when my nurse comes in for me,
Home I return across the sea,
And go to bed with backward looks
At my dear Land of Story-books.

THE WIND

I saw you toss the kites on high
And blow the birds about the sky;
And all around I heard you pass,
Like ladies' skirts across the grass--
    O wind, a-blowing all day long,
    O wind, that sings so loud a song!

I saw the different things you did,
But always you yourself you hid.
I felt you push, I heard you call,
I could not see yourself at all--
    O wind, a-blowing all day long,
    O wind, that sings so loud a song!

O you that are so strong and cold,
O blower, are you young or old?
Are you a beast of field and tree,
Or just a stronger child than me?
    O wind, a-blowing all day long,
    O wind, that sings so loud a song!

WINTER-TIME

Late lies the wintry sun a-bed,
A frosty, fiery sleepy-head;
Blinks but an hour or two; and then,
A blood-red orange, sets again.

Before the stars have left the skies,
At morning in the dark I rise;
And shivering in my nakedness,
By the cold candle, bathe and dress.

Close by the jolly fire I sit
To warm my frozen bones a bit;
Or, with a reindeer-sled, explore
The colder countries round the door.

When to go out, my nurse doth wrap
Me in my comforter and cap;
The cold wind burns my face, and blows
Its frosty pepper up my nose.

Black are my steps on silver sod;
Thick blows my frosty breath abroad;
And tree and house, and hill and lake,
Are frosted like a wedding-cake.

PIRATE STORY

Three of us afloat in the meadow by the swing,
  Three of us aboard in the basket on the lea.
Winds are in the air, they are blowing in the spring,
  And waves are on the meadow like the waves there are at sea.

Where shall we adventure, to-day that we're afloat,
  Wary of the weather and steering by a star?
Shall it be to Africa, a-steering of the boat,
  To Providence, or Babylon, or off to Malabar?

Hi! but here's a squadron a-rowing on the sea--
  Cattle on the meadow a-charging with a roar!
Quick, and we'll escape them, they're as mad as they can be,
  The wicket is the harbour and the garden is the shore.

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

LITTLE ORPHANT ANNIE

Little Orphant Annie's come to our house to stay,
An' wash the cups an' saucers up, an' brush the crumbs away,
An' shoo the chickens off the porch, an' dust the hearth, an' sweep,
An' make the fire, an' bake the bread, an' earn her board an' keep;
An' all us other childern, when the supper-things is done,
We set around the kitchen fire an' has the mostest fun
A-list'nin' to the witch-tales 'at Annie tells about,
An' the Gobble-uns 'at gits you
        Ef you
            Don't
                Watch
                    Out!

Wunst they wuz a little boy wouldn't say his prayers,--
An' when he went to bed at night, away upstairs,
His Mammy heerd him holler, an' his Daddy heerd him bawl,
An' when they turn't the kivvers down, he wuzn't there at all!
An' they seeked him in the rafter-room, an' cubby-hole, an' press,
An' seeked him up the chimbly-flue, an' ever' wheres, I guess;
But all they ever found wuz thist his pants an' roundabout:--
An' the Gobble-uns 'll git you
        Ef you
            Don't
                Watch
                    Out!

An' one time a little girl 'ud allus laugh an' grin,
An' make fun of ever' one, an' all her blood-an'-kin;
An' wunst, when they was "company," an' ole folks wuz there,
She mocked 'em an' shocked 'em, an' said she didn't care!
An' thist as she kicked her heels, an' turn't to run an' hide,
They wuz two great big Black Things a-standin' by her side,
An' they snatched her through the ceilin' 'fore she knowed what she's about!
An' the Gobble-uns 'll git you
        Ef you
            Don't
                Watch
                    Out!

An' little Orphant Annie says, when the blaze is blue,
An' the lamp-wick sputters, an' the wind goes woo-oo!
An' you hear the crickets quit, an' the moon is gray,
An' the lightnin'-bugs in dew is all squenched away,--
You better mind yer parunts, an' yer teachurs fond an' dear,
An' churish them 'at loves you, an' dry the orphant's tear,
An' help the pore an' needy ones 'at clusters all about,
Er the Gobble-uns'll git you
        Ef you
            Don't
                Watch
                    Out!

THE BROOK-SONG

  Little brook! Little brook!
  You have such a happy look--
Such a very merry manner, as you swerve and
     curve and crook--
  And your ripples, one and one,
  Reach each other's hands and run
Like laughing little children in the sun!

  Little brook, sing to me:
  Sing about a bumblebee
That tumbled from a lily-bell and grumbled
     mumblingly,
  Because he wet the film
  Of his wings, and had to swim,
While the water-bugs raced round and laughed
     at him!

  Little brook--sing a song
  Of a leaf that sailed along
Down the golden-braided center of your current
     swift and strong,
  And a dragon-fly that lit
  On the tilting rim of it,
And rode away and wasn't scared a bit.

  And sing--how oft in glee
  Came a truant boy like me,
Who loved to lean and listen to your lilting
     melody,
  Till the gurgle and refrain
  Of your music in his brain
Wrought a happiness as keen to him as pain.

  Little brook--laugh and leap!
  Do not let the dreamer weep;
Sing him all the songs of summer till he sink in
     softest sleep;
  And then sing soft and low
  Through his dreams of long ago--
Sing back to him the rest he used to know!

A LIFE LESSON

There! little girl! don't cry!
  They have broken your doll, I know;
    And your tea-set blue,
    And your play-house, too,
  Are things of long ago;
But childish troubles will soon pass by,
       There! little girl! don't cry!

There! little girl! don't cry!
  They have broken your slate, I know;
    And the glad wild ways
    Of your school-girl days
  Are things of the long ago;
But life and love will soon come by,
       There! little girl! don't cry!

There! little girl! don't cry!
  They have broken your heart, I know;
    And the rainbow gleams
    Of your youthful dreams
  Are things of the long ago;
But heaven holds all for which you sigh,
       There! little girl! don't cry!

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY EDWARD LEAR

THE QUANGLE WANGLE'S HAT

On the top of the Crumpetty Tree
  The Quangle Wangle sat,
But his face you could not see,
  On account of his Beaver Hat.
For his Hat was a hundred and two feet wide,
With ribbons and bibbons on every side,
And bells, and buttons, and loops, and lace,
So that nobody ever could see the face
  Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

The Quangle Wangle said
  To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
"Jam, and jelly, and bread
  Are the best of food for me!
But the longer I live on this Crumpetty Tree
The plainer than ever it seems to me
That very few people come this way
And that life on the whole is far from gay!"
  Said the Quangle Wangle Quee.

But there came to the Crumpetty Tree
  Mr. and Mrs. Canary;
And they said, "Did ever you see
  Any spot so charmingly airy?
May we build a nest on your lovely Hat?
Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
Oh, please let us come and build a nest
Of whatever material suits you best,
  Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"

And besides, to the Crumpetty Tree
  Came the Stork, the Duck, and the Owl;
The Snail and the Bumblebee,
  The Frog and the Fimble Fowl
(The Fimble Fowl, with a corkscrew leg);
And all of them said, "We humbly beg
We may build our homes on your lovely Hat,--
Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
  Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"

And the Golden Grouse came there,
  And the Pobble who has no toes,
And the small Olympian bear,
  And the Dong with a luminous nose.
And the Blue Baboon who played the flute,
And the Orient Calf from the Land of Tute,
And the Attery Squash, and the Bisky Bat,--
All came and built on the lovely Hat
  Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

And the Quangle Wangle said
  To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
"When all these creatures move
  What a wonderful noise there'll be!"
And at night by the light of the Mulberry moon
They danced to the Flute of the Blue Baboon,
On the broad green leaves of the Crumpetty Tree,
And all were as happy as happy could be,
  With the Quangle Wangle Quee.

THE POBBLE WHO HAS NO TOES

The Pobble who has no toes
  Had once as many as we;
When they said, "Some day you may lose them all,"
  He replied, "Fish fiddle de-dee!"
And his Aunt Jobiska made him drink
Lavender water tinged with pink;
For she said, "The World in general knows
There's nothing so good for a Pobble's toes!"

The Pobble who has no toes
  Swam across the Bristol Channel;
But before he set out he wrapped his nose
  In a piece of scarlet flannel.
For his Aunt Jobiska said, "No harm
Can come to his toes if his nose is warm;
And it's perfectly known that a Pobble's toes
Are safe--provided he minds his nose."

The Pobble swam fast and well,
  And when boats or ships came near him,
He tinkledy-binkledy-winkled a bell
  So that all the world could hear him.
And all the Sailors and Admirals cried,
When they saw him nearing the farther side,
"He has gone to fish for his Aunt Jobiska's
Runcible Cat with crimson whiskers!"

But before he touched the shore--
  The shore of the Bristol Channel,
A sea-green Porpoise carried away
  His wrapper of scarlet flannel.
And when he came to observe his feet,
Formerly garnished with toes so neat,
His face at once became forlorn
On perceiving that all his toes were gone!

And nobody ever knew,
  From that dark day to the present,
Whoso had taken the Pobble's toes,
  In a manner so far from pleasant.
Whether the shrimps or crawfish gray,
Or crafty mermaids stole them away,
Nobody knew; and nobody knows
How the Pobble was robbed of his twice five toes!

The Pobble who has no toes
  Was placed in a friendly Bark,
And they rowed him back and carried him up
  To his Aunt Jobiska's Park.
And she made him a feast at his earnest wish,
Of eggs and buttercups fried with fish;
And she said, "It's a fact the whole world knows,
That Pobbles are happier without their toes."

THE JUMBLIES

They went to sea in a sieve, they did;
  In a sieve they went to sea:
In spite of all their friends could say,
On a winter's morn, on a stormy day,
  In a sieve they went to sea.
And when the sieve turned round and round,
And every one cried, "You'll all be drowned!"
They called aloud, "Our sieve ain't big;
But we don't care a button, we don't care a fig:
  In a sieve we'll go to sea!"
    Far and few, far and few,
      Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
    Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
      And they went to sea in a sieve.

They sailed away in a sieve, they did,
  In a sieve they sailed so fast,
With only a beautiful pea-green veil
Tied with a ribbon by way of a sail,
  To a small tobacco-pipe mast.
And every one said who saw them go,
"Oh! won't they soon be upset, you know?
For the sky is dark and the voyage is long,
And happen what may, it's extremely wrong
  In a sieve to sail so fast."
    Far and few, far and few,
      Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
    Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
      And they went to sea in a sieve.

The water it soon came in, it did;
  The water it soon came in;
So, to keep them dry, they wrapped their feet
In a pinky paper all folded neat;
  And they fastened it down with a pin.
And they passed the night in a crockery-jar;
And each of them said, "How wise we are!
Though the sky be dark, and the voyage be long,
Yet we never can think we were rash or wrong,
  While round in our sieve we spin."
    Far and few, far and few,
      Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
    Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
      And they went to sea in a sieve.

And all night long they sailed away;
  And when the sun went down,
They whistled and warbled a moony song
To the echoing sound of a coppery gong,
  In the shade of the mountains brown.
"O Timballoo! How happy we are
When we live in a sieve and a crockery-jar!
And all night long, in the moonlight pale,
We sail away with a pea-green sail
  In the shade of the mountains brown."
    Far and few, far and few,
      Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
    Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
      And they went to sea in a sieve.

They sailed to the Western Sea, they did,--
  To a land all covered with trees:
And they bought an owl and a useful cart,
And a pound of rice, and a cranberry-tart,
  And a hive of silvery bees;
And they bought a pig, and some green jackdaws,
And a lovely monkey with lollipop paws,
And forty bottles of ring-bo-ree,
  And no end of Stilton cheese.
    Far and few, far and few,
      Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
    Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
      And they went to sea in a sieve.

And in twenty years they all came back,--
  In twenty years or more;
And every one said, "How tall they've grown!
For they've been to the Lakes, and the Torrible Zone,
  And the hills of the Chankly Bore."
And they drank their health, and gave them a feast
Of dumplings made of beautiful yeast;
And every one said, "If we only live,
We, too, will go to sea in a sieve,
  To the hills of the Chankly Bore."
    Far and few, far and few,
      Are the lands where the Jumblies live;
    Their heads are green and their hands are blue;
      And they went to sea in a sieve.

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY HENRY W. LONGFELLOW

THE EMPEROR'S BIRD'S-NEST

Once the Emperor Charles of Spain,
  With his swarthy, grave commanders,
I forget in what campaign,
Long besieged, in mud and rain,
  Some old frontier town of Flanders.

Up and down the dreary camp,
  In great boots of Spanish leather,
Striding with a measured tramp,
These Hidalgos, dull and damp,
  Cursed the Frenchmen, cursed the weather.

Thus as to and fro they went,
  Over upland and through hollow,
Giving their impatience vent,
Perched upon the Emperor's tent,
  In her nest, they spied a swallow.

Yes, it was a swallow's nest,
  Built of clay and hair of horses,
Mane, or tail, or dragoon's crest,
Found on hedge-rows east and west,
  After skirmish of the forces.

Then an old Hidalgo said,
  As he twirled his gray mustachio,
"Sure this swallow overhead
Thinks the Emperor's tent a shed,
  And the Emperor but a Macho!"

Hearing his imperial name
  Coupled with those words of malice,
Half in anger, half in shame,
Forth the great campaigner came
  Slowly from his canvas palace.

"Let no hand the bird molest,"
  Said he solemnly, "nor hurt her!"
Adding then, by way of jest,
"Golondrina is my guest,
  'Tis the wife of some deserter!"

Swift as bowstring speeds a shaft,
  Through the camp was spread the rumor,
And the soldiers, as they quaffed
Flemish beer at dinner, laughed
  At the Emperor's pleasant humor.

So unharmed and unafraid
  Sat the swallow still and brooded,
Till the constant cannonade
Through the walls a breach had made
  And the siege was thus concluded.

Then the army, elsewhere bent,
  Struck its tents as if disbanding,
Only not the Emperor's tent,
For he ordered, ere he went,
  Very curtly, "Leave it standing!"

So it stood there all alone,
  Loosely flapping, torn and tattered,
Till the brood was fledged and flown,
Singing o'er those walls of stone
  Which the cannon-shot had shattered.

THE RAINY DAY

The day is cold, and dark, and dreary;
It rains, and the wind is never weary;
The vine still clings to the mouldering wall,
But at every gust the dead leaves fall,
    And the day is dark and dreary!

My life is cold, and dark, and dreary;
It rains, and the wind is never weary;
My thoughts still cling to the mouldering Past,
But the hopes of youth fall thick in the blast,
    And the days are dark and dreary.

Be still, sad heart! and cease repining;
Behind the clouds is the sun still shining;
Thy fate is the common fate of all,
Into each life some rain must fall,
    Some days must be dark and dreary.

AN APRIL DAY

      When the warm sun, that brings
Seed-time and harvest, has returned again,
'Tis sweet to visit the still wood, where springs
      The first flower of the plain.

      I love the season well,
When forest glades are teeming with bright forms,
Nor dark and many-folded clouds foretell
      The coming-on of storms.

      From the earth's loosened mould
The sapling draws its sustenance, and thrives;
Though stricken to the heart with winter's cold,
      The drooping tree revives.

      The softly-warbled song
Comes from the pleasant woods, and colored wings
Glance quick in the bright sun, that moves along
      The forest openings.

      When the bright sunset fills
The silver woods with light, the green slope throws
Its shadows in the hollows of the hills,
      And wide the upland glows.

      And when the eve is born,
In the blue lake the sky, o'er-reaching far,
Is hollowed out, and the moon dips her horn,
      And twinkles many a star.

      Inverted in the tide,
Stand the gray rocks, and trembling shadows throw,
And the fair trees look over, side by side,
      And see themselves below.

      Sweet April!--many a thought
Is wedded unto thee, as hearts are wed;
Nor shall they fail, till, to its autumn brought,
      Life's golden fruit is shed.

RAIN IN SUMMER

How beautiful is the rain!
After the dust and heat,
In the broad and fiery street,
In the narrow lane,
How beautiful is the rain!

How it clatters along the roofs,
Like the tramp of hoofs!
How it gushes and struggles out
From the throat of the overflowing spout!

Across the window pane
It pours and pours;
And swift and wide,
With a muddy tide,
Like a river down the gutter roars
The rain, the welcome rain!
             *    *    *    *
In the country, on every side,
Where far and wide,
Like a leopard's tawny and spotted hide,
Stretches the plain,
To the dry grass and the drier grain
How welcome is the rain!
             *    *    *    *

DAYBREAK

A wind came up out of the sea,
And said, "O mists, make room for me."

It hailed the ships, and cried, "Sail on,
Ye mariners, the night is gone."

And hurried landward far away,
Crying, "Awake! it is the day."

It said unto the forest, "Shout!
Hang all your leafy banners out!"

It touched the wood-bird's folded wing,
And said, "O bird, awake and sing."

And o'er the farms, "O Chanticleer,
Your clarion blow; the day is near."

It whispered to the fields of corn,
"Bow down, and hail the coming morn."

It shouted through the belfry tower,
"Awake, O bell! proclaim the hour."

It crossed the churchyard with a sigh,
And said, "Not yet! in quiet lie."

AFTERNOON IN FEBRUARY

The day is ending,
The night is descending;
The marsh is frozen,
  The river dead.

Through clouds like ashes
The red sun flashes
On village windows
  That glimmer red.

The snow recommences;
The buried fences
Mark no longer
  The road o'er the plain;

While through the meadows,
Like fearful shadows,
Slowly passes
  A funeral train.

The bell is pealing,
And every feeling
Within me responds
  To the dismal knell;

Shadows are trailing,
My heart is bewailing
And tolling within
  Like a funeral bell.

HIAWATHA'S FISHING

Forth upon the Gitche Gumee,
On the shining Big-Sea-Water,
With his fishing-line of cedar,
Of the twisted bark of cedar,
Forth to catch the sturgeon Nahma,
Mishe-Nahma, King of Fishes,
In his birch canoe exulting
All alone went Hiawatha.

  Through the clear, transparent water
He could see the fishes swimming
Far down in the depths below him;
See the yellow perch, the Sahwa,

  Like a sunbeam in the water,
See the Shawgashee, the craw-fish,
Like a spider on the bottom,
On the white and sandy bottom.

  At the stern sat Hiawatha,
With his fishing-line of cedar;
In his plumes the breeze of morning
Played as in the hemlock branches;
On the bows, with tail erected,
Sat the squirrel, Adjidaumo;
In his fur the breeze of morning
Played as in the prairie grasses.

  On the white sand of the bottom
Lay the monster Mishe-Nahma,
Lay the sturgeon, King of Fishes;
Through his gills he breathed the water,
With his fins he fanned and winnowed,
With his tail he swept the sand-floor.

  There he lay in all his armor;
On each side a shield to guard him,
Plates of bone upon his forehead,
Down his sides and back and shoulders
Plates of bone with spines projecting!
Painted was he with his war-paints,
Stripes of yellow, red, and azure,
Spots of brown and spots of sable;
And he lay there on the bottom,
Fanning with his fins of purple,
As above him Hiawatha
In his birch canoe came sailing,
With his fishing-line of cedar.

  "Take my bait!" cried Hiawatha,
Down into the depths beneath him,
"Take my bait, O sturgeon, Nahma!
Come up from below the water,
Let us see which is the stronger!"
And he dropped his line of cedar
Through the clear, transparent water,
Waited vainly for an answer,
Long sat waiting for an answer,
And repeating loud and louder,
"Take my bait, O King of Fishes!"

  Quiet lay the sturgeon, Nahma,
Fanning slowly in the water,
Looking up at Hiawatha,
Listening to his call and clamor,
His unnecessary tumult,
Till he wearied of the shouting;
And he said to the Kenozha,
To the pike, the Maskenozha,
"Take the bait of this rude fellow,
Break the line of Hiawatha!"

  In his fingers Hiawatha
Felt the loose line jerk and tighten;
As he drew it in, it tugged so
That the birch canoe stood endwise,
Like a birch log in the water,
With the squirrel, Adjidaumo,
Perched and frisking on the summit.

  Full of scorn was Hiawatha
When he saw the fish rise upward,
Saw the pike, the Maskenozha,
Coming nearer, nearer to him,
And he shouted through the water,
"Esa! esa! shame upon you!
You are but the pike, Kenozha,
You are not the fish I wanted,
You are not the King of Fishes!"

  Reeling downward to the bottom
Sank the pike in great confusion,
And the mighty sturgeon, Nahma,
Said to Ugudwash, the sun-fish,
To the bream, with scales of crimson,
"Take the bait of this great boaster,
Break the line of Hiawatha!"

  Slowly upward, wavering, gleaming,
Rose the Ugudwash, the sun-fish,
Seized the line of Hiawatha,
Swung with all his weight upon it,
Made a whirlpool in the water,
Whirled the birch canoe in circles,
Round and round in gurgling eddies,
Till the circles in the water
Reached the far-off sandy beaches,
Till the water-flags and rushes
Nodded on the distant margins.

  But when Hiawatha saw him
Slowly rising through the water,
Lifting up his disk refulgent,
Loud he shouted in derision,
"Esa! esa! shame upon you!
You are Ugudwash, the sun-fish,
You are not the fish I wanted,
You are not the King of Fishes!"

  Slowly downward, wavering, gleaming,
Sank the Ugudwash, the sun-fish,
And again the sturgeon, Nahma,
Heard the shout of Hiawatha,
Heard his challenge of defiance,
The unnecessary tumult,
Ringing far across the water.

  From the white sand of the bottom
Up he rose with angry gesture,
Quivering in each nerve and fibre,
Clashing all his plates of armor,
Gleaming bright with all his war-paint;
In his wrath he darted upward,
Flashing leaped into the sunshine,
Opened his great jaws, and swallowed
Both canoe and Hiawatha.

  Down into that darksome cavern
Plunged the headlong Hiawatha,
As a log on some black river,
Shoots and plunges down the rapids,
Found himself in utter darkness,
Groped about in helpless wonder,
Till he felt a great heart beating,
Throbbing in that utter darkness.

  And he smote it in his anger,
With his fist, the heart of Nahma,
Felt the mighty King of Fishes
Shudder through each nerve and fibre,
Heard the water gurgle round him
As he leaped and staggered through it,
Sick at heart, and faint and weary.

  Crosswise then did Hiawatha
Drag his birch-canoe for safety,
Lest from out the jaws of Nahma,
In the turmoil and confusion,
Forth he might be hurled and perish.
And the squirrel, Adjidaumo,
Frisked and chattered very gayly,
Toiled and tugged with Hiawatha
Till the labor was completed.

  Then said Hiawatha to him,
"O my little friend, the squirrel,
Bravely have you toiled to help me;
Take the thanks of Hiawatha,
And the name which now he gives you;
For hereafter and forever
Boys shall call you Adjidaumo,
Tail-in-air the boys shall call you!"

  And again the sturgeon, Nahma,
Gasped and quivered in the water,
Then was still, and drifted landward
Till he grated on the pebbles,
Till the listening Hiawatha
Heard him grate upon the margin,
Felt him strand upon the pebbles,
Knew that Nahma, King of Fishes,
Lay there dead upon the margin.

  Then he heard a clang and flapping,
As of many wings assembling,
Heard a screaming and confusion,
As of birds of prey contending,
Saw a gleam of light above him,
Shining through the ribs of Nahma,
Saw the glittering eyes of sea-gulls,
Of Kayoshk, the sea-gulls, peering,
Gazing at him through the opening,
Heard them saying to each other,
"'Tis our brother, Hiawatha!"

  And he shouted from below them,
Cried exulting from the caverns:
"O ye sea-gulls! O my brothers!
I have slain the sturgeon, Nahma;
Make the rifts a little larger,
With your claws the openings widen,
Set me free from this dark prison,
And henceforward and forever
Men shall speak of your achievements,
Calling you Kayoshk, the sea-gulls,
Yes, Kayoshk, the Noble Scratchers!"

  And the wild and clamorous sea-gulls
Toiled with beak and claws together,
Made the rifts and openings wider
In the mighty ribs of Nahma,
And from peril and from prison,
From the body of the sturgeon,
From the peril of the water,
They released my Hiawatha.

  He was standing near his wigwam,
On the margin of the water,
And he called to old Nokomis,
Called and beckoned to Nokomis,
Pointed to the sturgeon, Nahma,
Lying lifeless on the pebbles,
With the sea-gulls feeding on him.

  "I have slain the Mishe-Nahma,
Slain the King of Fishes!" said he;
"Look! the sea-gulls feed upon him,
Yes, my friends Kayoshk, the sea-gulls;
Drive them not away, Nokomis,
They have saved me from great peril
In the body of the sturgeon,
Wait until their meal is ended,
Till their craws are full with feasting,
Till they homeward fly, at sunset,
To their nests among the marshes;
Then bring all your pots and kettles,
And make oil for us in Winter."

  And she waited till the sun set,
Till the pallid moon, the Night-sun,
Rose above the tranquil water,
Till Kayoshk, the sated sea-gulls,
From their banquet rose with clamor,
And across the fiery sunset
Winged their way to far-off islands,
To their nests among the rushes.

  To his sleep went Hiawatha,
And Nokomis to her labor,
Toiling patient in the moonlight,
Till the sun and moon changed places,
Till the sky was red with sunrise,
And Kayoshk, the hungry sea-gulls,
Came back from the reedy islands,
Clamorous for their morning banquet.

  Three whole days and nights alternate
Old Nokomis and the seagulls
Stripped the oily flesh of Nahma,
Till the waves washed through the rib-bones,
Till the sea-gulls came no longer,
And upon the sands lay nothing
But the skeleton of Nahma.

HIAWATHA'S FRIENDS

Two good friends had Hiawatha,
Singled out from all the others,
Bound to him in closest union,
And to whom he gave the right hand
Of his heart, in joy and sorrow;
Chibiabos, the musician,
And the very strong man, Kwasind.

Straight between them ran the pathway,
Never grew the grass upon it;
Singing birds, that utter falsehoods,
Story-tellers, mischief-makers,
Found no eager ear to listen,
Could not breed ill-will between them,
For they kept each other's counsel,
Spake with naked hearts together,
Pondering much and much contriving
How the tribes of men might prosper.

Most beloved by Hiawatha
Was the gentle Chibiabos,
He the best of all musicians,
He the sweetest of all singers.
Beautiful and childlike was he,
Brave as man is, soft as woman,
Pliant as a wand of willow,
Stately as a deer with antlers.

When he sang, the village listened;
All the warriors gathered round him,
All the women came to hear him;
Now he stirred their souls to passion,
Now he melted them to pity.

From the hollow reeds he fashioned
Flutes so musical and mellow,
That the brook, the Sebowisha,
Ceased to murmur in the woodland,
That the wood-birds ceased from singing,
And the squirrel, Adjidaumo,
Ceased his chatter in the oak-tree,
And the rabbit, the Wabasso,
Sat upright to look and listen,

Yes, the brook, the Sebowisha,
Pausing, said, "O Chibiabos,
Teach my waves to flow in music,
Softly as your words in singing!"

Yes, the bluebird, the Owaissa,
Envious, said, "O Chibiabos,
Teach me tones as wild and wayward,
Teach me songs as full of frenzy!"

Yes, the robin, the Opechee,
Joyous, said, "O Chibiabos,
Teach me tones as sweet and tender,
Teach me songs as full of gladness!"
And the whippoorwill, Wawonaissa,
Sobbing, said, "O Chibiabos,
Teach me tones as melancholy,
Teach me songs as full of sadness!"

All the many sounds of nature
Borrowed sweetness from his singing;
All the hearts of men were softened
By the pathos of his music;
For he sang of peace and freedom,
Sang of beauty, love, and longing;
Sang of death, and life undying
In the Islands of the Blessed,
In the kingdom of Ponemah,
In the land of the Hereafter.

Very dear to Hiawatha
Was the gentle Chibiabos,
He the best of all musicians,
He the sweetest of all singers;
For his gentleness he loved him,
And the magic of his singing.

Dear, too, unto Hiawatha
Was the very strong man, Kwasind,
He the strongest of all mortals,
He the mightiest among many;
For his very strength he loved him,
For his strength allied to goodness.

Idle in his youth was Kwasind,
Very listless, dull, and dreamy,
Never played with other children,
Never fished and never hunted,
Not like other children was he;
But they saw that much he fasted,
Much his Manito entreated,
Much besought his Guardian Spirit.

"Lazy Kwasind!" said his mother,
"In my work you never help me!
In the Summer you are roaming
Idly in the fields and forests;
In the Winter you are cowering
O'er the firebrands in the wigwam!
In the coldest days of Winter
I must break the ice for fishing;
With my nets you never help me!
At the door my nets are hanging,
Dripping, freezing with the water;
Go and wring them, Yenadizze!
Go and dry them in the sunshine!"

Slowly, from the ashes, Kwasind
Rose, but made no angry answer;
From the lodge went forth in silence,
Took the nets, that hung together,
Dripping, freezing at the doorway,
Like a wisp of straw he wrung them,
Like a wisp of straw he broke them,
Could not wring them without breaking,
Such the strength was in his fingers.

"Lazy Kwasind!" said his father,
"In the hunt you never help me;
Every bow you touch is broken,
Snapped asunder every arrow;
Yet come with me to the forest,
You shall bring the hunting homeward."

Down a narrow pass they wandered,
Where a brooklet led them onward,
Where the trail of deer and bison
Marked the soft mud on the margin,
Till they found all further passage
Shut against them, barred securely
By the trunks of trees uprooted,
Lying lengthwise, lying crosswise,
And forbidding further passage.

"We must go back," said the old man,
"O'er these logs we cannot clamber;
Not a woodchuck could get through them,
Not a squirrel clamber o'er them!"
And straightway his pipe he lighted,
And sat down to smoke and ponder.
But before his pipe was finished,
Lo! the path was cleared before him;
All the trunks had Kwasind lifted,
To the right hand, to the left hand,
Shot the pine-trees swift as arrows,
Hurled the cedars light as lances.

"Lazy Kwasind!" said the young men,
As they sported in the meadow:
"Why stand idly looking at us,
Leaning on the rock behind you?
Come and wrestle with the others,
Let us pitch the quoit together!"

Lazy Kwasind made no answer,
To their challenge made no answer,
Only rose, and, slowly turning,
Seized the huge rock in his fingers,
Tore it from its deep foundation,
Poised it in the air a moment,
Pitched it sheer into the river,
Sheer into the swift Pauwating,
Where it still is seen in Summer.

Once as down that foaming river,
Down the rapids of Pauwating,
Kwasind sailed with his companions,
In the stream he saw a beaver,
Saw Ahmeek, the King of Beavers,
Struggling with the rushing currents,
Rising, sinking in the water.

Without speaking, without pausing,
Kwasind leaped into the river,
Plunged beneath the bubbling surface,
Through the whirlpools chased the beaver,
Followed him among the islands,
Stayed so long beneath the water,
That his terrified companions
Cried, "Alas! good-bye to Kwasind!
We shall never more see Kwasind!"
But he reappeared triumphant,
And upon his shining shoulders
Brought the beaver, dead and dripping,
Brought the King of all the Beavers.

And these two, as I have told you,
Were the friends of Hiawatha,
Chibiabos, the musician,
And the very strong man, Kwasind.
Long they lived in peace together,
Spake with naked hearts together,
Pondering much and much contriving
How the tribes of men might prosper.

HIAWATHA'S HUNTING

Forth into the forest straightway
All alone walked Hiawatha
Proudly, with his bow and arrows,
And the birds sang round him, o'er him,
"Do not shoot us, Hiawatha!"
Sang the robin, the Opechee,
Sang the blue bird, the Owaissa,
"Do not shoot us, Hiawatha!"

Up the oak tree, close beside him,
Sprang the squirrel, Adjidaumo,
In and out among the branches,
Coughed and chattered from the oak tree,
Laughed, and said between his laughing,
"Do not shoot me, Hiawatha!"

And the rabbit from his pathway
Leaped aside, and at a distance
Sat erect upon his haunches,
Half in fear and half in frolic,
Saying to the little hunter,
"Do not shoot me, Hiawatha!"

But he heeded not, nor heard them,
For his thoughts were with the red deer;
On their tracks his eyes were fastened,
Leading downward to the river,
To the ford across the river,
And as one in slumber walked he,

Hidden in the alder bushes.
There he waited till the deer came,
Till he saw two antlers lifted,
Saw two eyes look from the thicket,
Saw two nostrils point to windward,
And a deer came down the pathway,
Flecked with leafy light and shadow.
And his heart within him fluttered,
Trembled like the leaves above him,
Like the birch-leaf palpitated,
As the deer came down the pathway.

Then, upon one knee uprising,
Hiawatha aimed an arrow;
Scarce a twig moved with his motion,
Scarce a leaf was stirred or rustled,
But the wary roebuck started,
Stamped with all his hoofs together,
Listened with one foot uplifted,
Leaped as if to meet the arrow;
Ah! the singing, fatal arrow,
Like a wasp it buzzed and stung him!

Dead he lay there in the forest,
By the ford across the river;
Beat his timid heart no longer,
But the heart of Hiawatha
Throbbed and shouted and exulted,
As he bore the red deer homeward,
And Iagoo and Nokomis
Hailed his coming with applauses.

From the red deer's hide Nokomis
Made a cloak for Hiawatha,
From the red deer's flesh Nokomis
Made a banquet in his honor.
All the village came and feasted,
All the guests praised Hiawatha,
Called him Strong-heart, Soan-ge-taha!
Called him Loon-Heart, Mahn-go-taysee!

HIAWATHA'S SAILING

"Give me of your bark, O Birch-Tree!
Of your yellow bark, O Birch-Tree!
Growing by the rushing river,
Tall and stately in the valley!
I a light canoe will build me,
Build a swift Cheemaun for sailing,
That shall float upon the river,
Like a yellow leaf in Autumn,
Like a yellow water-lily!

"Lay aside your cloak, O Birch-Tree!
Lay aside your white-skin wrapper,
For the Summer-time is coming,
And the sun is warm in heaven,
And you need no white-skin wrapper!"

Thus aloud cried Hiawatha
In the solitary forest,
By the rushing Taquamenaw,
When the birds were singing gayly,
In the Moon of Leaves were singing,
And the sun, from sleep awaking,
Started up and said, "Behold me!
Gheezis, the great Sun, behold me!"

And the tree with all its branches
Rustled in the breeze of morning,
Saying, with a sigh of patience,
"Take my cloak, O Hiawatha!"

With his knife the tree he girdled;
Just beneath its lowest branches,
Just above the roots, he cut it,
Till the sap came oozing outward:
Down the trunk, from top to bottom,
Sheer he cleft the bark asunder,
With a wooden wedge he raised it,
Stripped it from the trunk unbroken.

"Give me of your boughs, O Cedar!
Of your strong and pliant branches,
My canoe to make more steady,
Make more strong and firm beneath me!"

Through the summit of the Cedar
Went a sound, a cry of horror,
Went a murmur of resistance;
But it whispered, bending downward,
"Take my boughs, O Hiawatha!"

Down he hewed the boughs of cedar,
Shaped them straightway to a framework,
Like two bows he formed and shaped them,
Like two bended bows together.

"Give me of your roots, O Tamarack!
Of your fibrous roots, O Larch-Tree!
My canoe to bind together.
So to bind the ends together,
That the water may not enter,
That the river may not wet me!"

And the Larch, with all its fibres,
Shivered in the air of morning,
Touched his forehead with its tassels,
Said, with one long sigh of sorrow,
"Take them all, O Hiawatha!"

From the earth he tore the fibres,
Tore the tough roots of the Larch-Tree,
Closely sewed the bark together,
Bound it closely to the framework.

"Give me of your balm, O Fir-Tree!
Of your balsam and your resin,
So to close the seams together
That the water may not enter,
That the river may not wet me!"

And the Fir-Tree, tall and sombre,
Sobbed through all its robes of darkness,
Rattled like a shore with pebbles,
Answered wailing, answered weeping,
"Take my balm, O Hiawatha!"

And he took the tears of balsam,
Took the resin of the Fir-Tree,
Smeared therewith each seam and fissure,
Made each crevice safe from water.

"Give me of your quills, O Hedgehog!
All your quills, O Kagh, the Hedgehog!
I will make a necklace of them,
Make a girdle for my beauty,
And two stars to deck her bosom!"

From a hollow tree the Hedgehog
With his sleepy eyes looked at him,
Shot his shining quills, like arrows,
Saying, with a drowsy murmur,
Through the tangle of his whiskers,
"Take my quills, O Hiawatha!"

From the ground the quills he gathered,
All the little shining arrows,
Stained them red and blue and yellow,
With the juice of roots and berries;
Into his canoe he wrought them,
Round its waist a shining girdle,
Round its bow a gleaming necklace,
On its breast two stars resplendent.

Thus the Birch Canoe was builded
In the valley, by the river,
In the bosom of the forest;
And the forest's life was in it,
All its mystery and its magic,
All the lightness of the birch-tree,
All the toughness of the cedar,
All the larch's supple sinews;
And it floated on the river
Like a yellow leaf in Autumn,
Like a yellow water-lily.

Paddles none had Hiawatha,
Paddles none he had or needed,
For his thoughts as paddles served him,
And his wishes served to guide him;
Swift or slow at will he glided,
Veered to right or left at pleasure.

Then he called aloud to Kwasind,
To his friend, the strong man, Kwasind,
Saying, "Help me clear this river
Of its sunken logs and sand-bars."

Straight into the river Kwasind
Plunged as if he were an otter,
Dived as if he were a beaver,
Stood up to his waist in water,
To his arm-pits in the river,
Swam and shouted in the river,
Tugged at sunken logs and branches,
With his hands he scooped the sand-bars,
With his feet the ooze and tangle.

And thus sailed my Hiawatha
Down the rushing Taquamenaw,
Sailed through all its bends and windings,
Sailed through all its deeps and shallows,
While his friend, the strong man, Kwasind,
Swam the deeps, the shallows waded.

Up and down the river went they,
In and out among its islands,
Cleared its bed of root and sand-bar,
Dragged the dead trees from its channel,
Made its passage safe and certain
Made a pathway for the people,
From its springs among the mountains,
To the water of Pauwating,
To the bay of Taquamenaw.

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

TO A BUTTERFLY

I've watched you now a full half hour
Self-poised upon that yellow flower;
And, little Butterfly! indeed
I know not if you sleep or feed.
How motionless!--not frozen seas
More motionless!--and then
What joy awaits you, when the breeze
Hath found you out among the trees,
And calls you forth again!

This plot of orchard-ground is ours;
My trees they are, my Sister's flowers:
Here rest your wings when they are weary,
Here lodge as in a sanctuary!
Come often to us, fear no wrong;
Sit near us on the bough!
We'll talk of sunshine and of song,
And summer days, when we were young;
Sweet childish days, that were as long
As twenty days are now.

THE RAINBOW

My heart leaps up when I behold
  A rainbow in the sky:
So was it when my life began;
So is it now I am a man;
So be it when I shall grow old,
  Or let me die!
The child is father of the man;
And I could wish my days to be
Bound each to each by natural piety.

WE ARE SEVEN

        --A simple Child,
That lightly draws its breath,
And feels its life in every limb,
What should it know of death?

I met a little cottage Girl:
She was eight years old, she said;
Her hair was thick with many a curl
That clustered round her head.

She had a rustic, woodland air,
And she was wildly clad:
Her eyes were fair, and very fair;
--Her beauty made me glad.

"Sisters and brothers, little Maid,
How many may you be?"

"How many? Seven in all," she said,
And wondering looked at me.

"And where are they? I pray you tell."
She answered, "Seven are we;
And two of us at Conway dwell,
And two are gone to sea.

"Two of us in the church-yard lie,
My sister and my brother;
And, in the church-yard cottage, I
Dwell near them with my mother."

"You say that two at Conway dwell,
And two are gone to sea,
Yet ye are seven!--I pray you tell,
Sweet Maid, how this may be."

Then did the little Maid reply,
"Seven boys and girls are we;
Two of us in the church-yard lie,
Beneath the church-yard tree."

"You run about, my little Maid,
Your limbs they are alive;
If two are in the church-yard laid,
Then ye are only five."

"Their graves are green, they may be seen,"
The little Maid replied,
"Twelve steps or more from my mother's door,
And they are side by side.

"My stockings there I often knit,
My kerchief there I hem;
And there upon the ground I sit,
And sing a song to them.

"And often after sunset, Sir,
When it is light and fair,
I take my little porringer,
And eat my supper there.

"The first that died was sister Jane;
In bed she moaning lay,
Till God released her of her pain;
And then she went away.

"So in the church-yard she was laid;
And, when the grass was dry,
Together round her grave we played,
My brother John and I.

"And when the ground was white with snow,
And I could run and slide,
My brother John was forced to go,
And he lies by her side."

"How many are you, then," said I,
"If they two are in heaven?"
Quick was the little Maid's reply,
"O Master! we are seven."

"But they are dead; those two are dead!
Their spirits are in heaven!"
'Twas throwing words away; for still
The little Maid would have her will,
And said, "Nay, we are seven!"

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY MARY HOWITT

THE VOICE OF SPRING

I am coming, I am coming!
Hark! the honey bee is humming;
See, the lark is soaring high
In the blue and sunny sky,
And the gnats are on the wing
Wheeling round in airy ring.

Listen! New-born lambs are bleating,
And the cawing rooks are meeting
In the elms--a noisy crowd.
All the birds are singing loud,
And the first white butterfly
In the sunshine dances by.

Look around you, look around!
Flowers in all the fields abound,
Every running stream is bright,
All the orchard trees are white,
And each small and waving shoot
Promises sweet autumn fruit.

BIRDS IN SUMMER

How pleasant the life of a bird must be,
Flitting about in each leafy tree;
In the leafy trees so broad and tall,
Like a green and beautiful palace hall,
With its airy chambers light and boon,
That open to sun and stars and moon;
That open to the bright blue sky,
And the frolicsome winds as they wander by.

They have left their nests on the forest bough;
Those homes of delight they need not now;
And the young and the old they wander out,
And traverse their green world round about;
And hark! at the top of this leafy hall,
How one to the other in love they call!
"Come up! Come up!" they seem to say,
"Where the topmost twigs in the breezes sway."

"Come up! come up! for the world is fair
Where the merry leaves dance in the summer air."
And the birds below give back the cry,
"We come, we come to the branches high."
How pleasant the lives of the birds must be,
Living in love in a leafy tree!
And away through the air what joy to go,
And to look on the green, bright earth below!

How pleasant the life of a bird must be,
Skimming about on the breezy sea,
Cresting the billows like silvery foam,
Then wheeling away to its cliff-built home!
What joy it must be to sail, upborne,
By a strong free wing, through the rosy morn,
To meet the young sun, face to face,
And pierce, like a shaft, the boundless space!

To pass through the bowers of the silver cloud;
To sing in the thunder hall aloud;
To spread out the wings for a wild, free flight
With the upper cloud-wings,--oh, what delight!
Oh, what would I give, like a bird, to go,
Right on through the arch of the sun-lit bow,
And see how the water-drops are kissed
Into green and yellow and amethyst.

How pleasant the life of a bird must be,
Wherever it listeth, there to flee;
To go, when a joyful fancy calls,
Dashing down 'mong the waterfalls;
Then wheeling about, with its mate at play,
Above and below, and among the spray,
Hither and thither, with screams as wild
As the laughing mirth of a rosy child.

What joy it must be, like a living breeze,
To flutter about 'mid the flowering trees;

Lightly to soar, and to see beneath,
The wastes of the blossoming purple heath,
And the yellow furze, like fields of gold,
That gladdened some fairy region old!
On the mountain tops, on the billowy sea,
On the leafy stems of a forest tree,
How pleasant the life of a bird must be!

THE SPIDER AND THE FLY

"Will you walk into my parlor?"
  Said a spider to a fly;
"'Tis the prettiest little parlor
  That ever you did spy.
The way into my parlor
  Is up a winding stair,
And I have many pretty things
  To show you when you're there."
"O no, no," said the little fly,
  "To ask me is in vain;
For who goes up your winding stair
  Can ne'er come down again."

"I'm sure you must be weary
  With soaring up so high;
Will you rest upon my little bed?"
  Said the spider to the fly.
"There are pretty curtains drawn around;
  The sheets are fine and thin;
And if you like to rest awhile,
  I'll snugly tuck you in."
"O no, no," said the little fly,
  "For I've often heard it said
They never, never wake again,
  Who sleep upon your bed."

Said the cunning spider to the fly,
  "Dear friend, what shall I do
To prove the warm affection
  I've always felt for you?
I have, within my pantry,
  Good store of all that's nice;
I'm sure you're very welcome--
  Will you please to take a slice?"
"O no, no," said the little fly,
  "Kind sir, that cannot be;
I've heard what's in your pantry,
  And I do not wish to see."

"Sweet creature," said the spider,
  "You're witty and you're wise;
How handsome are your gauzy wings,
  How brilliant are your eyes.
I have a little looking-glass
  Upon my parlor shelf;
If you'll step in one moment, dear,
  You shall behold yourself."
"I thank you, gentle sir," she said,
  "For what you're pleased to say,
And bidding you good-morning now,
  I'll call another day."

The spider turned him round about,
  And went into his den,
For well he knew the silly fly
  Would soon be back again;
So he wove a subtle web
  In a little corner sly,
And set his table ready
  To dine upon the fly.

He went out to his door again,
  And merrily did sing,
"Come hither, hither, pretty fly,
  With pearl and silver wing;
Your robes are green and purple,
  There's a crest upon your head;
Your eyes are like the diamond bright,
  But mine are dull as lead."

Alas, alas! how very soon
  This silly little fly,
Hearing his wily, flattering words,
  Came slowly flitting by;
With buzzing wings she hung aloft,
  Then near and nearer drew--
Thought only of her brilliant eyes,
  And green and purple hue;
Thought only of her crested head--
  Poor foolish thing! At last
Up jumped the cunning spider,
  And fiercely held her fast.

He dragged her up his winding stair,
  Into his dismal den
Within his little parlor--but
  She ne'er came out again!
And now, dear little children
  Who may this story read,
To idle, silly, flattering words,
  I pray you, ne'er give heed.
Unto an evil counselor
  Close heart and ear and eye;
And take a lesson from this tale
  Of the spider and the fly.

THE FAIRIES OF THE CALDON LOW

"And where have you been, my Mary,
  And where have you been from me?"
"I've been to the top of the Caldon Low,
  The midsummer night to see!"

"And what did you see, my Mary,
  All up on the Caldon Low?"
"I saw the glad sunshine come down,
  And I saw the merry winds blow."

"And what did you hear, my Mary,
  All up on the Caldon Hill?"
"I heard the drops of the water made,
  And the ears of the green corn fill."

"Oh! tell me all, my Mary--
  All, all that ever you know;
For you must have seen the fairies
  Last night on the Caldon Low."

"Then take me on your knee, mother;
  And listen, mother of mine:
A hundred fairies danced last night.
  And the harpers they were nine;

"And their harp-strings rung so merrily
  To their dancing feet so small;
But oh! the words of their talking
  Were merrier far than all."

"And what were the words, my Mary,
  That then you heard them say?"
"I'll tell you all, my mother;
  But let me have my way.

"Some of them play'd with the water,
  And roll'd it down the hill;
'And this,' they said, 'shall speedily turn
  The poor old miller's mill;

"'For there has been no water
  Ever since the first of May;
And a busy man will the miller be
  At dawning of the day.

"'Oh! the miller, how he will laugh
  When he sees the mill-dam rise!
The jolly old miller, how he will laugh
  Till the tears fill both his eyes!'

"And some they seized the little winds
  That sounded over the hill;
And each put a horn unto his mouth,
  And blew both loud and shrill;

"'And there,' they said, 'the merry winds go
  Away from every horn;
And they shall clear the mildew dank
  From the blind old widow's corn.

"'Oh! the poor, blind widow,
  Though she has been blind so long,
She'll be blithe enough when the mildew's gone,
  And the corn stands tall and strong,'

"And some they brought the brown lint-seed,
  And flung it down from the Low;
'And this!' they said, 'by the sunrise,
  In the weaver's croft shall grow.

"'Oh! the poor, lame weaver,
  How he will laugh outright
When he sees his dwindling flax-field
  All full of flowers by night!'

"And then outspoke a brownie,
  With a long beard on his chin;
'I have spun up all the tow,' said he,
  'And I want some more to spin.

"'I've spun a piece of hempen cloth,
  And I want to spin another;
A little sheet for Mary's bed,
  And an apron for her mother.'

"With that I could not help but laugh,
  And I laugh'd out loud and free;
And then on the top of the Caldon Low
  There was no one left but me.

"And all on the top of the Caldon Low
  The mists were cold and gray,
And nothing I saw but the mossy stones
  That round about me lay.

"But, coming down from the hill-top,
  I heard afar below,
How busy the jolly miller was,
  And how the wheel did go.

"And I peep'd into the widow's field,
  And, sure enough, were seen
The yellow ears of the mildew'd corn,
  All standing stout and green.

"And down by the weaver's croft I stole,
  To see if the flax were sprung;
And I met the weaver at his gate,
  With the good news on his tongue.

"Now this is all I heard, mother,
  And all that I did see;
So, pr'ythee, make my bed, mother,
  For I'm tired as I can be."

OLD CHRISTMAS

Now he who knows old Christmas,
  He knows a carle of worth;
For he is as good a fellow
  As any upon earth.

He comes warm cloaked and coated,
  And buttoned up to the chin;
And soon as he comes a-nigh the door
  We open and let him in.

And with sprigs of holly and ivy
  We make the house look gay,
Just out of an old regard for him,
  For it was his ancient way.

He must be a rich old fellow,
  What money he gives away!
There is not a lord in England
  Could equal him any day.

Good luck unto old Christmas,
  And long life, let us sing,
For he doth more good unto the poor
  Than many a crowned king.

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY ALICE AND PHOEBE CARY

THE PIG AND THE HEN

  The pig and the hen,
  They both got in one pen,
And the hen said she wouldn't go out.
  "Mistress Hen," says the pig,
  "Don't you be quite so big!"
And he gave her a push with his snout.

  "You are rough, and you're fat,
  But who cares for all that;
I will stay if I choose," says the hen.
  "No, mistress, no longer!"
  Says pig, "I'm the stronger,
And mean to be boss of my pen!"

  Then the hen cackled out
  Just as close to his snout
As she dare: "You're an ill-natured brute,
  And if I had the corn,
  Just as sure as I'm born,
I would send you to starve or to root!"

  "But you don't own the cribs;
  So I think that my ribs
Will be never the leaner for you:
  This trough is my trough,
  And the sooner you're off,"
Says the pig, "why the better you'll do!"

  "You're not a bit fair,
  And you're cross as a bear;
What harm do I do in your pen?
  But a pig is a pig,
  And I don't care a fig
For the worst you can say," says the hen.

  Says the pig, "You will care
  If I act like a bear
And tear your two wings from your neck,"
  "What a nice little pen
  You have got!" says the hen,
Beginning to scratch and to peck.

  Now the pig stood amazed
  And the bristles, upraised
A moment past, fell down so sleek.
  "Neighbor Biddy," says he,
  "If you'll just allow me,
I will show you a nice place to pick!"

  So she followed him off,
  And they ate from one trough--

They had quarreled for nothing, they saw;
  And when they had fed,
  "Neighbor Hen," the pig said,
"Won't you stay here and roost in my straw?"

  "No, I thank you; you see
  That I sleep in a tree,"
Says the hen; "but I _must_ go away;
  So a grateful good-by."
  "Make your home in my sty,"
Says the pig, "and come in every day."

  Now my child will not miss
  The true moral of this
Little story of anger and strife;
  For a word spoken soft
  Will turn enemies oft
Into friends that will stay friends for life.

A LESSON OF MERCY

A boy named Peter
 Found once in the road
All harmless and helpless,
 A poor little toad;

And ran to his playmate,
 And all out of breath
Cried, "John, come and help,
 And we'll stone him to death!"

And picking up stones,
 The two went on the run,
Saying, one to the other,
 "Oh, won't we have fun?"

Thus primed and all ready,
 They'd got nearly back,
When a donkey came
 Dragging a cart on the track.

Now the cart was as much
 As the donkey could draw,
And he came with his head
 Hanging down; so he saw,

All harmless and helpless,
 The poor little toad,
A-taking his morning nap
 Right in the road.

He shivered at first,
 Then he drew back his leg,
And set up his ears,
 Never moving a peg.

Then he gave the poor toad,
 With his warm nose a dump,
And he woke and got off
 With a hop and jump.

And then with an eye
 Turned on Peter and John,
And hanging his homely head
 Down, he went on.

"We can't kill him now, John,"
 Says Peter, "that's flat,
In the face of an eye and
 An action like that!"

"For my part, I haven't
 The heart to," says John;
"But the load is too heavy
 That donkey has on:

"Let's help him"; so both lads
 Set off with a will
And came up with the cart
 At the foot of the hill.

And when each a shoulder
 Had put to the wheel,
They helped the poor donkey
 A wonderful deal.

When they got to the top
 Back again they both run,
Agreeing they never
 Had had better fun.

NOVEMBER

The leaves are fading and falling,
  The winds are rough and wild,
The birds have ceased their calling,
  But let me tell you, my child,

Though day by day, as it closes,
  Doth darker and colder grow,
The roots of the bright red roses
  Will keep alive in the snow.

And when the winter is over,
  The boughs will get new leaves,
The quail come back to the clover,
  And the swallow back to the eaves.

The robin will wear on his bosom
  A vest that is bright and new,
And the loveliest wayside blossom
  Will shine with the sun and dew.

The leaves to-day are whirling,
  The brooks are all dry and dumb,
But let me tell you, my darling,
  The spring will be sure to come.

There must be rough, cold weather,
  And winds and rains so wild;
Not all good things together
  Come to us here, my child.

So, when some dear joy loses
  Its beauteous summer glow,
Think how the roots of the roses
  Are kept alive in the snow.

LITTLE GOTTLIEB

Across the German Ocean,
  In a country far from our own,
Once, a poor little boy, named Gottlieb,
  Lived with his mother alone.

They dwelt in the part of a village
  Where the houses were poor and small,
But the home of little Gottlieb,
  Was the poorest one of all

He was not large enough to work,
  And his mother could do no more
(Though she scarcely laid her knitting down)
  Than keep the wolf from the door.

She had to take their threadbare clothes,
  And turn, and patch, and darn;
For never any woman yet
  Grew rich by knitting yarn.

And oft at night, beside her chair,
  Would Gottlieb sit, and plan
The wonderful things he would do for her,
  When he grew to be a man.

One night she sat and knitted,
 And Gottlieb sat and dreamed,
When a happy fancy all at once
 Upon his vision beamed.

'Twas only a week till Christmas,
 And Gottlieb knew that then
The Christ-child, who was born that day,
 Sent down good gifts to men.

But he said, "He will never find us,
 Our home is so mean and small.
And we, who have most need of them,
 Will get no gifts at all."

When all at once a happy light
 Came into his eyes so blue,
And lighted up his face with smiles,
 As he thought what he could do.

Next day when the postman's letters
 Came from all over the land;
Came one for the Christ-child, written
 In a child's poor trembling hand.

You may think he was sorely puzzled
 What in the world to do;
So he went to the Burgomaster,
 As the wisest man he knew.

And when they opened the letter,
  They stood almost dismayed
That such a little child should dare
  To ask the Lord for aid.

Then the Burgomaster stammered,
  And scarce knew what to speak,
And hastily he brushed aside
  A drop, like a tear, from his cheek.

Then up he spoke right gruffly,
  And turned himself about:
"This must be a very foolish boy,
  And a small one, too, no doubt."

But when six rosy children
  That night about him pressed,
Poor, trusting little Gottlieb
  Stood near him, with the rest.

And he heard his simple, touching prayer,
  Through all their noisy play;
Though he tried his very best to put
  The thought of him away.

A wise and learned man was he,
  Men called him good and just;
But his wisdom seemed like foolishness,
  By that weak child's simple trust.

Now when the morn of Christmas came
  And the long, long week was done,
Poor Gottlieb, who scarce could sleep,
  Rose up before the sun,

And hastened to his mother,
  But he scarce might speak for fear,
When he saw her wondering look, and saw
  The Burgomaster near.

He wasn't afraid of the Holy Babe,
  Nor his mother, meek and mild;
But he felt as if so great a man
  Had never been a child.

Amazed the poor child looked, to find
  The hearth was piled with wood,
And the table, never full before,
  Was heaped with dainty food.

Then half to hide from himself the truth
  The Burgomaster said,
While the mother blessed him on her knees,
  And Gottlieb shook for dread;

"Nay, give no thanks, my good dame,
  To such as me for aid,
Be grateful to your little son,
  And the Lord to whom he prayed!"

Then turning round to Gottlieb,
 "Your written prayer, you see,
Came not to whom it was addressed,
 It only came to me!

"'Twas but a foolish thing you did,
 As you must understand;
For though the gifts are yours, you know,
 You have them from my hand."

Then Gottlieb answered fearlessly,
 Where he humbly stood apart,
"But the Christ-child sent them all the same,
 He put the thought in your heart!"

OUR HEROES

Here's a hand to the boy who has courage
 To do what he knows to be right;
When he falls in the way of temptation,
 He has a hard battle to fight.
Who strives against self and his comrades
 Will find a most powerful foe;
All honor to him if he conquers--
 A cheer for the boy who says "No!"

There's many a battle fought daily
 The world knows nothing about;
There's many a brave little soldier
 Whose strength puts a legion to rout.

And he who fights sin single-handed
  Is more of a hero, I say,
Than he who leads soldiers to battle,
  And conquers by arms in the fray.

Be steadfast, my boy, when you're tempted
  And do what you know to be right;
Stand firm by the colors of manhood,
  And you will overcome in the fight.
"The Right" be your battle-cry ever,
  In waging the warfare of life;
And God, who knows who are the heroes,
  Will give you the strength for the strife.

AN APRIL WELCOME

Come up, April, through the valley,
  In your robes of beauty drest,
Come and wake your flowery children
  From their wintry beds of rest;
Come and overblow them softly
  With the sweet breath of the south;
Drop upon them, warm and loving,
  Tenderest kisses of your mouth.

Touch them with your rosy fingers,
  Wake them with your pleasant tread,
Push away the leaf-brown covers,
  Over all their faces spread;

Tell them how the sun is waiting
  Longer daily in the skies,
Looking for the bright uplifting
  Of their softly-fringed eyes.

Call the crow-foot and the crocus,
  Call the pale anemone,
Call the violet and the daisy,
  Clothed with careful modesty;
Seek the low and humble blossoms,
  Of their beauties unaware,
Let the dandelion and fennel,
  Show their shining yellow hair.

Bid the little homely sparrows
  Chirping, in the cold and rain,
Their impatient sweet complaining,
  Sing out from their hearts again;
Bid them set themselves to mating,
  Cooing love in softest words,
Crowd their nests, all cold and empty,
  Full of little callow birds.

Come up, April, through the valley,
  Where the fountain sleeps to-day,
Let him, freed from icy fetters,
  Go rejoicing on his way;
Through the flower-enameled meadows
  Let him run his laughing race,
Making love to all the blossoms
  That o'erlean and kiss his face.

But not birds and blossoms only,
  Not alone the streams complain,
Men and maidens too are calling,
  Come up, April, come again!
Waiting with the sweet impatience
  Of a lover for the hours
They shall set the tender beauty
  Of thy feet among the flowers!

AUTUMN

Shorter and shorter now the twilight clips
  The days, as through the sunset gates they crowd,
And Summer from her golden collar slips
  And strays through stubble-fields and moans aloud.

Save when by fits the warmer air deceives,
  And, stealing hopeful to some sheltered bower,
She lies on pillows of the yellow leaves,
  And tries the old tunes over for an hour.

The wind, whose tender whisper in the May
  Set all the young blooms listening through the grove,
Sits rustling in the faded boughs to-day
  And makes his cold and unsuccessful love.

The rose has taken off her 'tire of red--
  The mullein-stalk its yellow stars have lost,
And the proud meadow-pink hangs down her head
  Against earth's chilly bosom, witched with frost.

The robin, that was busy all the June,
  Before the sun had kissed the topmost bough,
Catching our hearts up in his golden tune,
  Has given place to the brown cricket now.

The very cock crows lonesomely at morn--
  Each flag and fern the shrinking stream divides--
Uneasy cattle low, and lambs forlorn
  Creep to their strawy sheds with nettled sides.

Shut up the door: who loves me must not look
  Upon the withered world, but haste to bring
His lighted candle, and his story-book,
  And live with me the poetry of spring.

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY CHARLES KINGSLEY

THE THREE FISHERS

Three fishers went sailing away to the west--
  Away to the west as the sun went down;
Each thought on the woman who loved him the best,
  And the children stood watching them out of the town;
For men must work, and women must weep;
And there's little to earn, and many to keep,
    Though the harbor bar be moaning.

Three wives sat up in the lighthouse tower,
  And they trimm'd the lamps as the sun went down;
They look'd at the squall, and they look'd at the shower,
  And the night-rack came rolling up, ragged and brown;
But men must work, and women must weep,
Though storms be sudden, and waters deep,
    And the harbor bar be moaning.

Three corpses lay out on the shining sands
  In the morning gleam as the tide went down,
And the women are weeping and wringing their hands
  For those who will never come home to the town;
For men must work, and women must weep--
And the sooner it's over, the sooner to sleep--
    And good-bye to the bar and its moaning.

THE "OLD, OLD SONG"

When all the world is young, lad,
  And all the trees are green;
And every goose a swan, lad,
  And every lass a queen,--
Then hey for boot and horse, lad,
  And round the world away;
Young blood must have its course, lad,
  And every dog his day.

When all the world is old, lad,
  And all the trees are brown;
And all the sport is stale, lad,
  And all the wheels run down,--
Creep home, and take your place there,
  The spent and maimed among:
God grant you find one face there
  You loved when all was young.

A FAREWELL

My fairest child, I have no song to give you;
  No lark could pipe to skies so dull and gray;
Yet, ere we part, one lesson I can leave you
        For every day.

Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever;
  Do noble things, not dream them, all day long:
And so make life, death, and that vast forever
        One grand, sweet song.

THE LOST DOLL

I once had a sweet little doll, dears,
  The prettiest doll in the world;
Her cheeks were so red and white, dears,
  And her hair was so charmingly curled.
But I lost my poor little doll, dears,
  As I played in the heath one day;
And I cried for her more than a week, dears,
  But I never could find where she lay.

I found my poor little doll, dears,
  As I played in the heath one day;
Folks say she is terribly changed, dears,
  For her paint is all washed away,
And her arms trodden off by the cows, dears,
  And her hair not the least bit curled;
Yet for old sakes' sake, she is still, dears,
  The prettiest doll in the world.

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY HELEN HUNT JACKSON

"DOWN TO SLEEP"

November woods are bare and still;
November days are clear and bright;
Each noon burns up the morning's chill;
The morning's snow is gone by night.
Each day my steps grow slow, grow light,
As through the woods I reverent creep,
Watching all things lie "down to sleep."

I never knew before what beds,
Fragrant to smell, and soft to touch,
The forest sifts and shapes and spreads;
I never knew before how much
Of human sound there is in such
Low tones as through the forest sweep,
When all wild things lie "down to sleep."

Each day I find new coverlids
Tucked in, and more sweet eyes shut tight;
Sometimes the viewless mother bids
Her ferns kneel down full in my sight;
I hear their chorus of "good-night";
And half I smile, and half I weep,
Listening while they lie "down to sleep."

November woods are bare and still;
November days are bright and good;
Life's noon burns up life's morning chill;
Life's night rests feet which long have stood;
Some warm soft bed, in field or wood,
The mother will not fail to keep,
Where we can "lay us down to sleep."

SEPTEMBER

The goldenrod is yellow,
  The corn is turning brown,
The trees in apple orchards
  With fruit are bending down;

The gentian's bluest fringes
  Are curling in the sun;
In dusty pods the milkweed
  Its hidden silk has spun;

The sedges flaunt their harvest
  In every meadow nook,
And asters by the brookside
  Make asters in the brook;

From dewy lanes at morning
  The grapes' sweet odors rise;
At noon the roads all flutter
  With yellow butterflies--

By all these lovely tokens
  September days are here,
With summer's best of weather
  And autumn's best of cheer.

OCTOBER'S BRIGHT BLUE WEATHER

O suns and skies and clouds of June,
  And flowers of June together,
Ye cannot rival for one hour
  October's bright blue weather.

When loud the bumble-bee makes haste,
  Belated, thriftless, vagrant,
And golden-rod is dying fast,
  And lanes with grapes are fragrant;

When gentians roll their fringes tight
  To save them for the morning,
And chestnuts fall from satin burrs
  Without a sound of warning;

When on the ground red apples lie
  In piles like jewels shining,
And redder still on old stone walls
  Are leaves of woodbine twining;

When all the lovely wayside things
  Their white-winged seeds are sowing,
And in the fields, still green and fair,
  Late aftermaths are growing;

When springs run low, and on the brooks,
  In idle golden freighting,
Bright leaves sink noiseless in the hush
  Of woods, for winter waiting;

When comrades seek sweet country haunts,
  By twos and twos together,
And count like misers hour by hour,
  October's bright blue weather.

O suns and skies and flowers of June,
  Count all your boasts together,
Love loveth best of all the year
  October's bright blue weather.

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY GABRIEL SETOUN

ROMANCE

I saw a ship a-sailing,
  A-sailing on the sea;
Her masts were of the shining gold,
  Her deck of ivory;
And sails of silk, as soft as milk,
  And silver shrouds had she.

And round about her sailing,
  The sea was sparkling white,
The waves all clapped their hands and sang
  To see so fair a sight.
They kissed her twice, they kissed her thrice,
  And murmured with delight.

Then came the gallant captain,
  And stood upon the deck;
In velvet coat, and ruffles white,
  Without a spot or speck;
And diamond rings, and triple strings
  Of pearls around his neck.

And four-and-twenty sailors
  Were round him bowing low;
On every jacket three times three
  Gold buttons in a row;
And cutlasses down to their knees;
  They made a goodly show.

And then the ship went sailing,
  A-sailing o'er the sea;
She dived beyond the setting sun,
  But never back came she,
For she found the lands of the golden sands,
  Where the pearls and diamonds be.

JACK FROST

The door was shut, as doors should be,
  Before you went to bed last night;
Yet Jack Frost has got in, you see,
  And left your window silver white.

He must have waited till you slept;
  And not a single word he spoke,
But pencilled o'er the panes and crept
  Away again before you woke.

And now you cannot see the hills
  Nor fields that stretch beyond the lane;
But there are fairer things than these
  His fingers traced on every pane.

Rocks and castles towering high;
  Hills and dales, and streams and fields;
And knights in armor riding by,
  With nodding plumes and shining shields.

And here are little boats, and there
  Big ships with sails spread to the breeze;
And yonder, palm trees waving fair
  On islands set in silver seas,

And butterflies with gauzy wings;
  And herds of cows and flocks of sheep;
And fruit and flowers and all the things
  You see when you are sound asleep.

For, creeping softly underneath
  The door when all the lights are out,
Jack Frost takes every breath you breathe,
  And knows the things you think about.

He paints them on the window-pane
  In fairy lines with frozen steam;
And when you wake you see again
  The lovely things you saw in dream.

THE WORLD'S MUSIC

The world's a very happy place,
  Where every child should dance and sing,
And always have a smiling face,
  And never sulk for anything.

I waken when the morning's come,
  And feel the air and light alive
With strange sweet music like the hum
  Of bees about their busy hive.

The linnets play among the leaves
  At hide-and-seek, and chirp and sing;
While, flashing to and from the eaves,
  The swallows twitter on the wing.

The twigs that shake, and boughs that sway;
  And tall old trees you could not climb;
And winds that come, but cannot stay,
  Are singing gaily all the time.

From dawn to dark the old mill-wheel
  Makes music, going round and round;
And dusty-white with flour and meal,
  The miller whistles to its sound.

And if you listen to the rain
  Where leaves and birds and bees are dumb,
You hear it pattering on the pane
  Like Andrew beating on his drum.

The coals beneath the kettle croon,
  And clap their hands and dance in glee;
And even the kettle hums a tune
  To tell you when it's time for tea.

The world is such a happy place
  That children, whether big or small,
Should always have a smiling face,
  And never, never sulk at all.

*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE

A MORNING SONG

Hark! hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings,
  And Phoebus 'gins arise,
His steeds to water at those springs
  On chaliced flowers that lies;
And winking Mary-buds begin
  To ope their golden eyes:
With everything that pretty bin,
  My lady sweet, arise:
    Arise, arise!

UNDER THE GREENWOOD TREE

  Under the greenwood tree
  Who loves to lie with me,
  And tune his merry note
  Unto the sweet bird's throat,
Come hither, come hither, come hither!
  Here shall he see
  No enemy
But winter and rough weather.
  Who doth ambition shun,
  And loves to live i' the sun,
  Seeking the food he eats,
  And pleased with what he gets,
Come hither, come hither, come hither!
  Here shall he see
  No enemy
But winter and rough weather.

LULLABY FOR TITANIA

FIRST FAIRY
You spotted snakes with double tongue,
  Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen;
Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong,
  Come not near our fairy queen.

_Chorus_
    Philomel, with melody
    Sing in our sweet lullaby;
Lulla, lulla, lullaby; lulla, lulla, lullaby!
    Never harm,
    Nor spell, nor charm,
    Come our lovely lady nigh!
    So good-night, with lullaby.

SECOND FAIRY
Weaving spiders, come not here;
  Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence;
Beetles black, approach not near;
  Worm, nor snail, do no offence.

SONG OF THE FAIRY

  Over hill, over dale,
    Thorough bush, thorough brier,
  Over park, over pale,
    Thorough flood, thorough fire,
  I do wander everywhere,
  Swifter than the moon's sphere;
  And I serve the fairy queen,
  To dew her orbs upon the green.
  The cowslips tall her pensioners be!
  In their gold coats spots you see;
  Those be rubies, fairy favors,
  In those freckles live their savors:
I must go seek some dewdrops here,
And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear.

WINTER

When icicles hang by the wall
  And Dick the shepherd blows his nail,
And Tom bears logs into the hall,
  And milk comes frozen home in pail,
When blood is nipp'd, and ways be foul,
Then nightly sings the staring owl,
                 To-who;
Tu-whit, to-who, a merry note,
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.

When all around the wind doth blow,
  And coughing drowns the parson's saw,
And birds sit brooding in the snow,
  And Marian's nose looks red and raw,
When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl,
Then nightly sings the staring owl,
                 To-who;
Tu-whit, to-who, a merry note,
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.

*       *       *       *       *
*       *       *       *       *

POEMS BY VARIOUS AUTHORS

FRAIDIE-CAT

I shan't tell you what's his name:
When we want to play a game,
Always thinks that he'll be hurt,
Soil his jacket in the dirt,
Tear his trousers, spoil his hat,--
Fraidie-Cat! Fraidie-Cat!

Nothing of the boy in him!
"Dasn't" try to learn to swim;
Says a cow'll hook; if she
Looks at him he'll climb a tree;
"Scart" to death at bee or bat,--
Fraidie-Cat! Fraidie-Cat!

Claims there're ghosts all snowy white
Wandering around at night
In the attic; wouldn't go
There for anything, I know;
B'lieve he'd run if you said "Scat!"
Fraidie-Cat! Fraidie-Cat!
                _Clinton Scollard._

JACK IN THE PULPIT

Jack in the pulpit
 Preaches to-day,
Under the green trees
 Just over the way.
Squirrel and song-sparrow,
 High on their perch,
Hear the sweet lily-bells
 Ringing to church.
Come, hear what his reverence
 Rises to say,
In his low painted pulpit
 This calm Sabbath-day.
Fair is the canopy
 Over him seen,
Penciled by Nature's hand,
 Black, brown, and green.
Green is his surplice,
 Green are his bands;
In his queer little pulpit
 The little priest stands.

In black and gold velvet,
 So gorgeous to see,
Comes with his bass voice
 The chorister bee.
Green fingers playing
 Unseen on wind-lyres,
Low singing bird voices,--
  These are his choirs.
The violets are deacons--
  I know by the sign
That the cups which they carry
  Are purple with wine.
And the columbines bravely
  As sentinels stand
On the look-out with all their
  Red trumpets in hand.

Meek-faced anemones,
  Drooping and sad;
Great yellow violets,
  Smiling out glad;
Buttercups' faces,
  Beaming and bright;
Clovers, with bonnets,--
  Some red and some white;
Daisies, their white fingers
  Half-clasped in prayer;
Dandelions, proud of
  The gold of their hair;
Innocents,--children
  Guileless and frail,
Meek little faces
  Upturned and pale;
Wild-wood geraniums,
  All in their best,
Languidly leaning
  In purple gauze dressed:--
All are assembled
  This sweet Sabbath-day
To hear what the priest
  In his pulpit will say.

Look! white Indian pipes
  On the green mosses lie!
Who has been smoking
  Profanely so nigh?
Rebuked by the preacher
  The mischief is stopped,
But the sinners, in haste,
  Have their little pipes dropped.
Let the wind, with the fragrance
  Of fern and black birch,
Blow the smell of the smoking
  Clean out of the church!
So much for the preacher:
  The sermon comes next,--
Shall we tell how he preached it,
  And where was his text?
Alas! like too many
  Grown-up folks who play
At worship in churches
  Man-builded to-day,--
We heard not the preacher
  Expound or discuss;

But we looked at the people,
 And they looked at us.
We saw all their dresses,
 Their colors and shapes;
The trim of their bonnets,
 The cut of their capes.
We heard the wind-organ,
 The bee, and the bird,
But of Jack in the pulpit
 We heard not a word!
                  _Clara Smith._

THE ANT AND THE CRICKET

A silly young cricket, accustomed to sing
Through the warm, sunny months of gay summer and spring,
Began to complain, when he found that at home
His cupboard was empty and winter was come.
        Not a crumb to be found
        On the snow-covered ground;
        Not a flower could he see,
        Not a leaf on a tree.

"Oh, what will become," says the cricket, "of me?"
At last by starvation and famine made bold,
All dripping with wet and all trembling with cold,
Away he set off to a miserly ant
To see if, to keep him alive, he would grant
        Him shelter from rain.
        A mouthful of grain
        He wished only to borrow,
        He'd repay it to-morrow;
If not helped, he must die of starvation and sorrow.

Says the ant to the cricket: "I'm your servant and friend,
But we ants never borrow, we ants never lend.
Pray tell me, dear sir, did you lay nothing by
When the weather was warm?" Said the cricket, "Not I.
       My heart was so light
       That I sang day and night,
       For all nature looked gay."
       "You sang, sir, you say?
Go then," said the ant, "and sing winter away."

Thus ending, he hastily lifted the wicket
And out of the door turned the poor little cricket.
Though this is a fable, the moral is good--
If you live without work, you must live without
       food.
                                    _Anonymous._

WISHING

Ring-Ting! I wish I were a Primrose,
A bright yellow Primrose, blowing in the spring!
 The stooping boughs above me,
 The wandering bee to love me,
 The fern and moss to creep across,
 And the Elm tree for our king!

Nay--stay! I wish I were an Elm tree,
A great, lofty Elm tree, with green leaves gay!
  The winds would set them dancing,
  The sun and moonshine glance in,
  The birds would house among the boughs,
  And sweetly sing.

Oh no! I wish I were a Robin,
A Robin or a little Wren, everywhere to go;
  Through forest, field, or garden,
  And ask no leave or pardon,
  Till winter comes with icy thumbs
  To ruffle up our wing!

Well--tell! Where should I fly to,
Where go to sleep in the dark wood or dell?
  Before a day was over,
  Home comes the rover,
  For mother's kiss--sweeter this
  Than any other thing.
                         _William Allingham._

ROBIN REDBREAST

Good-bye, good-bye to Summer!
  For Summer's nearly done;
The garden smiling faintly,
  Cool breezes in the sun!
Our thrushes now are silent,--
  Our swallows flown away,--
But Robin's here in coat of brown,
  And scarlet breast-knot gay.
Robin, Robin Redbreast,
  O Robin dear!
Robin sings so sweetly
  In the falling of the year.

Bright yellow, red, and orange,
  The leaves come down in hosts;
The trees are Indian princes,
  But soon they'll turn to ghosts;
The scanty pears and apples
  Hang russet on the bough;
It's autumn, autumn, autumn late,
  'Twill soon be winter now.
Robin, Robin Redbreast,
  O Robin dear!
And what will this poor Robin do?
  For pinching days are near.

The fireside for the cricket,
  The wheat-stack for the mouse,
When trembling night-winds whistle
  And moan all round the house.
The frosty ways like iron,
  The branches plumed with snow,--
Alas! in winter dead and dark,
  Where can poor Robin go?
Robin, Robin Redbreast,
  O Robin dear!
And a crumb of bread for Robin,
  His little heart to cheer.
                        _William Allingham._

THE CHESTNUT BURR

A wee little nut lay deep in its nest
Of satin and brown, the softest and best,
And slept and grew while its cradle rocked--
As it hung in the boughs that interlocked.

Now, the house was small where the cradle lay,
As it swung in the winds by night and day;
For a thicket of underbrush fenced it round,
This lone little cot by the great sun browned.

This little nut grew, and ere long it found
There was work outside on the soft, green ground;
It must do its part, so the world might know
It had tried one little seed to sow.

And soon the house that had kept it warm
Was tossed about by the autumn storm;
The stem was cracked, the old house fell,
And the chestnut burr was an empty shell.

But the little nut, as it waiting lay,
Dreamed a wonderful dream one day,
Of how it should break its coat of brown,
And live as a tree, to grow up and down.
                               _Anonymous._

MARJORIE'S ALMANAC

Robins in the tree-top,
  Blossoms in the grass,
Green things a-growing
  Everywhere you pass;
Sudden little breezes,
  Showers of silver dew,
Black bough and bent twig
  Budding out anew;
Pine-tree and willow-tree,
  Fringed elm and larch,--
Don't you think that May-time's
  Pleasanter than March?

Apples in the orchard
  Mellowing one by one;
Strawberries upturning
  Soft cheeks to the sun;

Roses faint with sweetness,
  Lilies fair of face,
Drowsy scents and murmurs
  Haunting every place;
Lengths of golden sunshine,
  Moonlight bright as day,--
Don't you think that summer's
  Pleasanter than May?

Roger in the corn-patch
  Whistling negro songs;
Pussy by the hearth-side
  Romping with the tongs;
Chestnuts in the ashes
  Bursting through the rind;
Red leaf and gold leaf
  Rustling down the wind;
Mother "doin' peaches"
  All the afternoon,--
Don't you think that autumn's
  Pleasanter than June?

Little fairy snow-flakes
  Dancing in the flue;
Old Mr. Santa Claus,
  What is keeping you?
Twilight and firelight
  Shadows come and go;

Merry chime of sleigh-bells
  Tinkling through the snow;
Mother knitting stockings
  (Pussy's got the ball),--
Don't you think that winter's
  Pleasanter than all?
              _Thomas Bailey Aldrich._

KRISS KRINGLE

Just as the moon was fading
  Amid her misty rings,
And every stocking was stuffed
  With childhood's precious things,

Old Kriss Kringle looked around,
  And saw on the elm-tree bough,
High hung, an oriole's nest,
  Lonely and empty now.

"Quite a stocking," he laughed,
  "Hung up there on a tree!
I didn't suppose the birds
  Expected a present from me!"

Then old Kriss Kringle, who loves
  A joke as well as the best,
Dropped a handful of snowflakes
  Into the oriole's empty nest.
               _Thomas Bailey Aldrich._

LITTLE BY LITTLE

"Little by little," an acorn said,
As it slowly sank in its mossy bed,
"I am improving every day,
Hidden deep in the earth away."

Little by little, each day it grew;
Little by little, it sipped the dew;
Downward it sent out a thread-like root;
Up in the air sprung a tiny shoot.

Day after day, and year after year,
Little by little the leaves appear;
And the slender branches spread far and wide,
Till the mighty oak is the forest's pride.

Far down in the depths of the dark blue sea,
An insect train work ceaselessly.
Grain by grain, they are building well,
Each one alone in its little cell.

Moment by moment, and day by day,
Never stopping to rest or to play,
Rocks upon rocks, they are rearing high,
Till the top looks out on the sunny sky.

The gentle wind and the balmy air,
Little by little, bring verdure there;
Till the summer sunbeams gayly smile
On the buds and the flowers of the coral isle.

"Little by little," said a thoughtful boy,
"Moment by moment, I'll well employ,
Learning a little every day,
And not spending all my time in play.
And still this rule in my mind shall dwell,
_Whatever I do, I will do it well._

"Little by little, I'll learn to know
The treasured wisdom of long ago;
And one of these days, perhaps, we'll see
That the world will be the better for me";
And do you not think that this simple plan
Made him a wise and useful man?
                               _Anonymous._

THE FAIRY QUEEN

  Come, follow, follow me--
  You, fairy elves that be,
  Which circle on the green--
  Come, follow Mab, your queen!
Hand in hand let's dance around,
For this place is fairy ground.

  When mortals are at rest,
  And snoring in their nest,
  Unheard and unespied,
  Through keyholes we do glide;
Over tables, stools, and shelves,
We trip it with our fairy elves.

  And if the house be foul
  With platter, dish, or bowl,
  Upstairs we nimbly creep,
  And find the sluts asleep;
There we pinch their arms and thighs--
None escapes, nor none espies.

  But if the house be swept,
  And from uncleanness kept,
  We praise the household maid,
  And duly she is paid;
For we use, before we go,
To drop a tester in her shoe.

  Upon a mushroom's head
  Our tablecloth we spread;
  A grain of rye or wheat
  Is manchet, which we eat;
Pearly drops of dew we drink,
In acorn cups, fil'd to the brink.

  The brains of nightingales,
  With unctuous fat of snails,
  Between two cockles stew'd,
  Is meat that's easily chew'd;
Tails of worms, and marrow of mice,
Do make a dish that's wondrous nice.

  The grasshopper, gnat, and fly,
  Serve us for our minstrelsy;
  Grace said, we dance a while,
  And so the time beguile;
And if the moon doth hide her head,
The glow-worm lights us home to bed.

  On tops of dewy grass
  So nimbly do we pass,
  The young and tender stalk
  Ne'er bends when we do walk;
Yet in the morning may be seen
Where we the night before have been.
                          _Anonymous._

A BUSY DAY

The bluff March wind set out from home
  Before the peep of day,
But nobody seemed to be glad he had come,
  And nobody asked him to stay.

Yet he dried up the snow-banks far and near,
  And made the snow-clouds roll,
Huddled up in a heap, like driven sheep,
  Way off to the cold North Pole.

He broke the ice on the river's back
  And floated it down the tide,
And the wild ducks came with a loud "Quack, quack,"
  To play in the waters wide.

He snatched the hat off Johnny's head
  And rolled it on and on,
And oh, what a merry chase it led
  Little laughing and scampering John!

He swung the tree where the squirrel lay
  Too late in its winter bed,
And he seemed to say in his jolly way,
  "Wake up, little sleepy head!"

He dried the yard so that Rob and Ted
  Could play at marbles there,
And he painted their cheeks a carmine red
  With the greatest skill and care.

He shook all the clothes-lines, one by one,
  What a busy time he had!
But nobody thanked him for all he had done;
  Now wasn't that just too bad?
                        _Anonymous._

A LAUGHING CHORUS

Oh, such a commotion under the ground
  When March called, "Ho, there! ho!"
Such spreading of rootlets far and wide,
  Such whispering to and fro;
And, "Are you ready?" the Snowdrop asked,
  "'Tis time to start, you know."
"Almost, my dear," the Scilla replied;
  "I'll follow as soon as you go."
Then, "Ha! ha! ha!" a chorus came
  Of laughter soft and low,
From the millions of flowers under the ground--
  Yes--millions--beginning to grow.

"I'll promise my blossoms," the Crocus said,
  "When I hear the bluebirds sing."
And straight thereafter, Narcissus cried,
  "My silver and gold I'll bring."
"And ere they are dulled," another spoke,
  "The Hyacinth bells shall ring."
And the Violet only murmured, "I'm here,"
  And sweet grew the air of spring.
Then, "Ha! ha! ha!" a chorus came
  Of laughter soft and low,
From the millions of flowers under the ground--
  Yes--millions--beginning to grow.

Oh, the pretty, brave things! through the coldest days,
  Imprisoned in walls of brown,
They never lost heart though the blast shrieked loud,
  And the sleet and the hail came down,
But patiently each wrought her beautiful dress,
  Or fashioned her beautiful crown;
And now they are coming to brighten the world,
  Still shadowed by Winter's frown;
And well may they cheerily laugh, "Ha! ha!"
  In a chorus soft and low,
The millions of flowers hid under the ground--
  Yes--millions--beginning to grow.
                             _Anonymous._

THE WALRUS AND THE CARPENTER

The sun was shining on the sea,
  Shining with all his might:
He did his very best to make
  The billows smooth and bright--
And this was odd, because it was
  The middle of the night.

The moon was shining sulkily,
  Because she thought the sun
Had got no business to be there
  After the day was done--
"It's very rude of him," she said,
  "To come and spoil the fun!"

The sea was wet as wet could be,
  The sands were dry as dry.
You could not see a cloud, because
  No cloud was in the sky:
No birds were flying overhead--
  There were no birds to fly.

The Walrus and the Carpenter
  Were walking close at hand:
They wept like anything to see
  Such quantities of sand:
"If this were only cleared away,"
  They said, "It would be grand!"

"If seven maids with seven mops
  Swept it for half a year,
Do you suppose," the Walrus said,
  "That they could get it clear?"
"I doubt it," said the Carpenter,
  And shed a bitter tear.

"O Oysters, come and walk with us!"
  The Walrus did beseech.
"A pleasant walk, a pleasant talk,
  Along the briny beach:
We cannot do with more than four,
  To give a hand to each."

The eldest Oyster looked at him,
  But never a word he said:
The eldest Oyster winked his eye,
  And shook his heavy head--
Meaning to say he did not choose
  To leave the oyster-bed.

But four young Oysters hurried up,
  All eager for the treat:
Their coats were brushed, their faces washed,
  Their shoes were clean and neat--
And this was odd, because, you know,
  They hadn't any feet.

Four other Oysters followed them
  And yet another four;
And thick and fast they came at last,
  And more, and more, and more--
All hopping through the frothy waves,
  And scrambling to the shore.

The Walrus and the Carpenter
  Walked on a mile or so,
And then they rested on a rock
  Conveniently low:
And all the little Oysters stood
  And waited in a row.

"The time has come," the Walrus said,
  "To talk of many things:
Of shoes--and ships--and sealing-wax--
  Of cabbages--and kings--
And why the sea is boiling hot--
  And whether pigs have wings."

"But wait a bit," the Oysters cried,
  "Before we have our chat;
For some of us are out of breath,
  And all of us are fat!"
"No hurry!" said the Carpenter.
  They thanked him much for that

"A loaf of bread," the Walrus said,
  "Is what we chiefly need:
Pepper and vinegar besides
  Are very good indeed--
Now, if you're ready, Oysters dear,
  We can begin to feed."

"But not on us!" the Oysters cried,
  Turning a little blue.
"After such kindness, that would be
  A dismal thing to do!"
"The night is fine," the Walrus said,
  "Do you admire the view?

"It was so kind of you to come!
  And you are very nice!"
The Carpenter said nothing but
  "Cut us another slice.
I wish you were not quite so deaf--
  I've had to ask you twice!"

"It seems a shame," the Walrus said,
  "To play them such a trick.
After we've brought them out so far,
  And made them trot so quick!"
The Carpenter said nothing but
  "The butter's spread too thick!"

"I weep for you," the Walrus said:
  "I deeply sympathize."
With sobs and tears he sorted out
  Those of the largest size,
Holding his pocket-handkerchief
  Before his streaming eyes.

"O Oysters," said the Carpenter,
  "You've had a pleasant run!
Shall we be trotting home again?"
  But answer came there none--
And this was scarcely odd, because
  They'd eaten every one.
                       _Lewis Carroll._

A LOBSTER QUADRILLE

"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting
       to a snail,
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and
       he's treading on my tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all
       advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come
       and join the dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will
       you join the dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't
      you join the dance?

"You can really have no notion how delightful
      it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the
      lobsters, out to sea!"
But the snail replied, "Too far, too far!" and
      gave a look askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he
      would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not,
      would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, could
      not join the dance.

"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly
      friend replied,
"There is another shore, you know, upon the
      other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to
      France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and
      join the dance.
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will
      you join the dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't
      you join the dance?"
                                 _Lewis Carroll._

DANDELION

He is a roguish little elf,
  A gay audacious fellow,
Who tramps about in doublet green
  And skirt of brightest yellow;
In ev'ry field, by ev'ry road,
  He peeps among the grasses,
And shows his sunny little face
  To ev'ry one that passes.

Within the churchyard he is seen,
  Beside the headstones peeping,
And shining like a golden star
  O'er some still form there sleeping;
Beside the house door oft he springs,
  In all his wanton straying,
And children shout in laughing glee
  To find him in their playing.

At eve he dons his nightgown green,
  And goes to bed right early,
At morn, he spreads his yellow skirts
  To catch the dewdrops pearly;
A darling elf is Dandelion,
  A roguish wanton sweeting;
Yet he is loved by ev'ry child,
  All give him joyous greeting.
                             _Kate L. Brown._

NIGHT

The sun descending in the west,
  The evening star does shine;
The birds are silent in their nest,
  And I must seek for mine.
    The moon, like a flower
    In heaven's high bower,
    With silent delight
    Sits and smiles on the night.

Farewell, green fields and happy grove,
  Where flocks have ta'en delight;
Where lambs have nibbled, silent move
  The feet of angels bright;
    Unseen they pour blessing,
    And joy without ceasing,
    On each bud and blossom,
    And each sleeping bosom.

They look in every thoughtless nest
  Where birds are cover'd warm,
They visit caves of every beast,
  To keep them all from harm:--
    If they see any weeping
    That should have been sleeping
    They pour sleep on their head,
    And sit down by their bed.
                          _William Blake._

A LAUGHING SONG

When the green woods laugh with the voice of joy,
And the dimpling stream runs laughing by;
When the air does laugh with our merry wit,
And the green hill laughs with the noise of it;

When the meadows laugh with lively green,
And the grasshopper laughs in the merry scene;
When Mary, and Susan, and Emily,
With their sweet round mouths sing, "Ha, ha, he!"

When the painted birds laugh in the shade,
Where our table with cherries and nuts is spread:
Come live, and be merry, and join with me
To sing the sweet chorus of "Ha, ha, he!"
                                _William Blake._

THE LAND OF DREAMS

"Awake, awake, my little boy!
Thou wast thy mother's only joy;
Why dost thou weep in thy gentle sleep?
O wake! thy father does thee keep."

--"O what land is the Land of Dreams?
What are its mountains, and what are its streams?
O father! I saw my mother there,
Among the lilies by waters fair.

"Among the lambs, clothed in white,
She walk'd with her Thomas in sweet delight:
I wept for joy; like a dove I mourn:--
O when shall I again return!"

--"Dear child! I also by pleasant streams
Have wander'd all night in the Land of Dreams:--
But, though calm and warm the waters wide,
I could not get to the other side."

--"Father, O father! what do we here,
In this land of unbelief and fear?--
The Land of Dreams is better far,
Above the light of the morning star."
                         _William Blake._

ROBERT OF LINCOLN

Merrily swinging on briar and weed,
  Near to the nest of his little dame,
Over the mountain-side or mead,
  Robert of Lincoln is telling his name.
        Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
        Spink, spank, spink,
Snug and safe is that nest of ours,
Hidden among the summer flowers.
        Chee, chee, chee.

Robert of Lincoln is gayly dressed,
  Wearing a bright, black wedding-coat;
White are his shoulders, and white his crest,
  Hear him call in his merry note,
        Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
        Spink, spank, spink,
Look what a nice, new coat is mine;
Sure there was never a bird so fine.
        Chee, chee, chee.

Robert of Lincoln's Quaker wife,
  Pretty and quiet, with plain brown wings,
Passing at home a patient life,
  Broods in the grass while her husband sings:
        Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
        Spink, spank, spink,
Brood, kind creature, you need not fear
Thieves and robbers while I am here.
        Chee, chee, chee.

Modest and shy as a nun is she;
  One weak chirp is her only note;
Braggart, and prince of braggarts is he,
  Pouring boasts from his little throat,
        Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
        Spink, spank, spink,
Never was I afraid of man,
Catch me, cowardly knaves, if you can.
        Chee, chee, chee.

Six white eggs on a bed of hay,
  Flecked with purple, a pretty sight:
There as the mother sits all day,
  Robert is singing with all his might,
    Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
    Spink, spank, spink,
Nice good wife, that never goes out,
Keeping house while I frolic about.
    Chee, chee, chee.

Soon as the little ones chip the shell,
  Six wide mouths are open for food;
Robert of Lincoln bestirs him well,
  Gathering seeds for the hungry brood:
    Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
    Spink, spank, spink,
This new life is likely to be
Hard for a gay young fellow like me.
    Chee, chee, chee.

Robert of Lincoln at length is made
  Sober with work, and silent with care,
Off is his holiday garment laid,
  Half forgotten that merry air:
    Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
    Spink, spank, spink,
Nobody knows but my mate and I,
Where our nest and our nestlings lie,
    Chee, chee, chee.

Summer wanes; the children are grown;
  Fun and frolic no more he knows,
Robert of Lincoln's a humdrum drone;
  Off he flies, and we sing as he goes,
        Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
        Spink, spank, spink,
When you can pipe that merry old strain,
Robert of Lincoln, come back again.
        Chee, chee, chee.
                        _William Cullen Bryant._

A CHILD'S THOUGHT OF GOD

They say that God lives very high;
  But if you look above the pines
You cannot see our God; and why?

And if you dig down in the mines,
  You never see Him in the gold,
Though from Him all that's glory shines.

God is so good, He wears a fold
  Of heaven and earth across His face,
Like secrets kept, for love, untold.

But still I feel that His embrace
  Slides down by thrills, through all things made,
Through sight and sound of every place;

As if my tender mother laid
  On my shut lids her kisses' pressure,
Half waking me at night, and said,
  "Who kissed you through the dark, dear guesser?"
                           _Elizabeth Barrett Browning._

"BOB WHITE"

I see you, on the zigzag rails,
  You cheery little fellow!
While purple leaves are whirling down,
  And scarlet, brown, and yellow.
I hear you when the air is full
  Of snow-down of the thistle;
All in your speckled jacket trim,
  "Bob White! Bob White!" you whistle.

Tall amber sheaves, in rustling rows,
  Are nodding there to greet you;
I know that you are out for play--
  How I should like to meet you!
Though blithe of voice, so shy you are,
  In this delightful weather;
What splendid playmates you and I,
  "Bob White," would make together!

There, you are gone! but far away
  I hear your whistle falling.
Ah! may be it is hide-and-seek,
  And that's why you are calling.
Along those hazy uplands wide
  We'd be such merry rangers;
What! silent now, and hidden too?
  "Bob White," don't let's be strangers.

Perhaps you teach your brood the game,
  In yonder rainbowed thicket,
While winds are playing with the leaves,
  And softly creaks the cricket.
"Bob White! Bob White!"--again I hear
  That blithely whistled chorus;
Why should we not companions be?
  One Father watches o'er us!
                            _George Cooper._

THE DAISIES

Over the shoulders and slopes of the dune
  I saw the white daisies go down to the sea,
A host in the sunshine, an army in June,
  The people God sends us to set our hearts free.

The bobolinks rallied them up from the dell,
  The orioles whistled them out of the wood;
And all of their saying was, "Earth, it is well!"
  And all of their dancing was, "Life, thou art good!"
                                          _Bliss Carman._

WAITING TO GROW

Little white snowdrop just waking up,
Violet, daisy, and sweet buttercup,
Think of the flowers that are under the snow,
    Waiting to grow!

And think what a number of queer little seeds,
Of flowers and mosses, of ferns and of weeds,
Are under the leaves and under the snow,
    Waiting to grow!

Think of the roots getting ready to sprout,
Reaching their slender brown fingers about,
Under the ice and the leaves and the snow,
    Waiting to grow!

No seed is so small, or hidden so well,
That God cannot find it; and soon he will tell
His sun where to shine, and His rain where to go,
    Making it grow!
                               _Frank French._

THE DANDELIONS

Upon a showery night and still,
  Without a sound of warning,
A trooper band surprised the hill,
  And held it in the morning.

We were not waked by bugle notes
  No cheer our dreams invaded,
And yet, at dawn, their yellow coats
  On the green slopes paraded.

We careless folk the deed forgot;
  Till one day, idly walking,
We marked upon the self-same spot
  A crowd of veterans, talking.
They shook their trembling heads and gray,
  With pride and noiseless laughter,
When, well-a-day! they blew away,
  And ne'er were heard of after.
                       _Helen Gray Cone._

A FAIRY TALE

There stands by the wood-path shaded
  A meek little beggar maid;
Close under her mantle faded
  She is hidden like one afraid.

Yet if you but lifted lightly
  That mantle of russet brown,
She would spring up slender and sightly,
  In a smoke-blue silken gown.

For she is a princess, fated,
  Disguised in the wood to dwell,
And all her life long has awaited
  The touch that should break the spell;

And the Oak, that has cast around her
  His root like a wrinkled arm,
Is the wild old wizard that bound her
  Fast with his cruel charm.

Is the princess worth your knowing?
  Then haste, for the spring is brief,
And find the Hepatica growing,
  Hid under a last year's leaf!
                         _Helen Gray Cone._

A FABLE

The mountain and the squirrel
Had a quarrel,
And the former called the latter "Little Prig";
Bun replied,
"You are doubtless very big;
But all sorts of things and weather
Must be taken in together,
To make up a year
And a sphere.
And I think it no disgrace
To occupy my place.
If I'm not so large as you
You are not so small as I,
And not half so spry.

I'll not deny you make
A very pretty squirrel track;
Talents differ; all is well and wisely put;
If I cannot carry forests on my back,
Neither can you crack a nut."
                     _Ralph Waldo Emerson._

THE NIGHT WIND

Have you ever heard the wind go "Yooooo"?
  'Tis a pitiful sound to hear!
It seems to chill you through and through
  With a strange and speechless fear.
'Tis the voice of the night that broods outside
  When folk should be asleep,
And many and many's the time I've cried
To the darkness brooding far and wide
  Over the land and the deep:
  "Whom do you want, O lonely night,
  That you wail the long hours through?"
And the night would say in its ghostly way:
                "Yoooooooo!
                Yoooooooo!
                Yoooooooo!"

My mother told me long ago
  (When I was a little tad)
That when the night went wailing so,
  Somebody had been bad;

And then, when I was snug in bed,
  Whither I had been sent,
With the blankets pulled up round my head,
I'd think of what my mother'd said,
  And wonder what boy she meant!
  And "Who's been bad to-day?" I'd ask
  Of the wind that hoarsely blew;
And the voice would say in its meaningful way:
                "Yoooooooo!
                Yoooooooo!
                Yoooooooo!"

That this was true I must allow--
  You'll not believe it, though!
Yes, though I'm quite a model now,
  I was not always so.
And if you doubt what things I say,
  Suppose you make the test;
Suppose, when you've been bad some day
And up to bed are sent away
  From mother and the rest--
  Suppose you ask, "Who has been bad?"
  And then you'll hear what's true;
For the wind will moan in its ruefulest tone:
                "Yoooooooo!
                Yoooooooo!
                Yoooooooo!"
                                _Eugene Field._

DON'T KILL THE BIRDS

Don't kill the birds, the pretty birds
  That sing about your door,
Soon as the joyous spring has come
  And chilling storms are o'er.
The little birds, how sweet they sing!
  Oh, let them joyous live,
And never seek to take the life
  That you can never give!

Don't kill the birds, the pretty birds
  That play among the trees;
'Twould make the earth a cheerless place
  Should we dispense with these.
The little birds, how fond they play!
  Do not disturb their sport;
But let them warble forth their songs
  Till winter cuts them short.

Don't kill the birds, the happy birds,
  That bless the fields and grove;
So innocent to look upon,
  They claim our warmest love.
The happy birds, the tuneful birds,
  How pleasant 'tis to see!
No spot can be a cheerless place
  Where'er their presence be.
                           _J. Colesworthy._

A THANKSGIVING FABLE

It was a hungry pussy cat, upon Thanksgiving morn,
And she watched a thankful little mouse, that ate an ear of corn.
"If I ate that thankful little mouse, how thankful he should be,
When he has made a meal himself, to make a meal for me!

"Then with his thanks for having fed, and his thanks for feeding me,
With all _his_ thankfulness inside, how thankful I shall be!"
Thus mused the hungry pussy cat, upon Thanksgiving Day;
But the little mouse had overheard and declined (with thanks) to stay.
                                                       _Oliver Herford._

THE BALLAD OF THE TEMPEST

We were crowded in the cabin,
  Not a soul would dare to sleep,--
It was midnight on the waters,
  And a storm was on the deep.

'Tis a fearful thing in winter
  To be shattered by the blast,
And to hear the rattling trumpet
  Thunder, "Cut away the mast!"

So we shuddered there in silence,--
  For the stoutest held his breath,
While the hungry sea was roaring
  And the breakers talked with Death.

As thus we sat in darkness,
  Each one busy with his prayers,
"We are lost!" the captain shouted,
  As he staggered down the stairs.

But his little daughter whispered,
  As she took his icy hand,
"Isn't God upon the ocean,
  Just the same as on the land?"

Then we kissed the little maiden,
  And we spoke in better cheer,
And we anchored safe in harbor,
  When the morn was shining clear.
                         _James T. Fields._

A CHILD'S PRAYER

God make my life a little light,
  Within the world to glow,--
A tiny flame that burneth bright,
  Wherever I may go.

God make my life a little flower,
  That giveth joy to all;--
Content to bloom in native bower
  Although its place be small.

God make my life a little song,
  That comforteth the sad;
That helpeth others to be strong,
  And makes the singer glad.

God make my life a little staff
  Whereon the weak may rest,--
That so what health and strength I have
  May serve my neighbor best.

God make my life a little hymn
  Of tenderness and praise,--
Of faith, that never waxeth dim,
  In all His wondrous ways.
                _Matilda B. Edwards._

JACK FROST

The Frost looked forth one still, clear night,
And whispered, "Now I shall be out of sight;
So, through the valley, and over the height,
        In silence I'll take my way.
I will not go on like that blustering train,
The wind and the snow, the hail and the rain,
That make such a bustle and noise in vain,
        But I'll be as busy as they!"

So he flew to the mountain, and powdered its crest;
He lit on the trees, and their boughs he drest
With diamonds and pearls; and over the breast
        Of the quivering lake he spread
A coat of mail, that it need not fear
The downward point of many a spear
That he hung on its margin, far and near,
        Where a rock could rear its head.

He went to the windows of those who slept,
And over each pane, like a fairy, crept;
Wherever he breathed, wherever he stepped,
        By the light of the morn were seen
Most beautiful things; there were flowers and trees;
There were bevies of birds and swarms of bees;
There were cities with temples and towers; and these
        All pictured in silvery sheen!

But he did one thing that was hardly fair--
He peeped in the cupboard, and finding there
That all had forgotten for him to prepare--
        "Now, just to set them a-thinking,

I'll bite this basket of fruit," said he,
"This costly pitcher I'll burst in three;
And the glass of water they've left for me
        Shall 'tchick' to tell them I'm drinking!"
                              _Hannah F. Gould._

FAIRY SONG

Shed no tear! oh, shed no tear!
The flower will bloom another year.
Weep no more! oh, weep no more!
Young buds sleep in the root's white core.
Dry your eyes! oh, dry your eyes!
For I was taught in Paradise
To ease my breast of melodies,--
                            Shed no tear.

Overhead! look overhead!
'Mong the blossoms white and red--
Look up, look up! I flutter now
On this fresh pomegranate bough.
See me! 'tis this silvery bill
Ever cures the good man's ill.
Shed no tear! oh, shed no tear!
The flower will bloom another year.
Adieu, adieu--I fly--adieu!
I vanish in the heaven's blue,--
                             Adieu, adieu!
                               _John Keats._

THE DOVE

I had a dove, and the sweet dove died;
And I have thought it died of grieving:
Oh, what could it grieve for? its feet were tied
With a silken thread of my own hands' weaving.
Sweet little red feet! Why should you die--
Why would you leave me, sweet bird! why?
You lived alone in the forest tree;
Why, pretty thing! would you not live with me?
I kiss'd you oft and gave you white peas;
Why not live sweetly, as in the green trees?
                                   _John Keats._

THE WIND IN A FROLIC

The wind one morning sprang up from sleep,
Saying, "Now for a frolic! now for a leap!
Now for a madcap, galloping chase!
I'll make a commotion in every place!"
So it swept with a bustle right through a great town,
Creaking the signs, and scattering down
The shutters, and whisking, with merciless squalls,
Old women's bonnets and gingerbread stalls.
There never was heard a much lustier shout
As the apples and oranges tumbled about;
And urchins, that stand with their thievish eyes
Forever on watch, ran off each with a prize.

Then away to the fields it went blustering and humming,
And the cattle all wondered whatever was coming.
It plucked by their tails the grave matronly cows,
And tossed the colts' manes all about their brows,
Till offended at such a familiar salute,
They all turned their backs and stood silently mute.

So on it went, capering and playing its pranks;
Whistling with reeds on the broad river banks;
Puffing the birds, as they sat on a spray,
Or the travelers grave on the king's highway.
It was not too nice to bustle the bags
Of the beggar, and flutter his dirty rags.
'Twas so bold that it feared not to play its joke
With the doctor's wig, and the gentleman's cloak.
Through the forest it roared, and cried gayly, "Now,
You sturdy old oaks, I'll make you bow!"
And it made them bow without more ado,
Or it cracked their great branches through and through.

Then it rushed like a monster o'er cottage and farm,
Striking their inmates with sudden alarm;
And they ran out like bees in a midsummer swarm.
There were dames with kerchiefs tied over their caps,
To see if their poultry were free from mishaps.
The turkeys they gobbled, the geese screamed aloud,
And the hens crept to roost in a terrified crowd;
There was rearing of ladders, and logs laying on,
Where the thatch from the roof threatened soon to be gone.
But the wind had passed on, and had met in a lane
With a schoolboy, who panted and struggled in vain,
For it tossed him, and twirled him, then passed, and he stood
With his hat in a pool and his shoe in the mud.
                                             _William Howitt._

A DAY

I'll tell you how the sun rose,--
  A ribbon at a time.
The steeples swam in amethyst,
  The news like squirrels ran.

The hills untied their bonnets,
  The bobolinks begun.
Then said I softly to myself,
  "That must have been the sun!"

But how he set I know not;
  There seemed a purple stile
Which little yellow boys and girls
  Were climbing all the while.

Till when they reached the other side,
  A dominie in gray
Put gently up the evening bars,
  And led the flock away.
                         _Emily Dickinson._

THE GRASS

The grass so little has to do,--
A sphere of simple green,
With only butterflies to brood,
And bees to entertain,

And stir all day to pretty tunes
The breezes fetch along,
And hold the sunshine in its lap
And bow to everything;

And thread the dews all night, like pearls,
And make itself so fine,--
A duchess were too common
For such a noticing.

And even when it dies, to pass
In odors so divine,
As lowly spices gone to sleep,
Or amulets of pine.

And then to dwell in sovereign barns,
And dream the days away,--
The grass so little has to do,
I wish I were the hay.
                         _Emily Dickinson._

WHITE SEAL

Oh! hush thee, my baby, the night is behind us,
  And black are the waters that sparkled so green.
The moon, o'er the combers, looks downward to find us
  At rest in the hollows that rustle between.

Where billow meets billow, there soft be thy pillow;
  Ah, weary, wee flipperling, curl at thy ease!
The storm shall not wake thee, nor shark overtake thee,
  Asleep in the arms of the slow-swinging seas.
                         _Rudyard Kipling._

THE CAMEL'S HUMP

The Camel's hump is an ugly lump
  Which well you may see at the Zoo;
But uglier yet is the hump we get
  From having too little to do.

Kiddies and grown-ups too-oo-oo,
If we haven't enough to do-oo-oo,
  We get the hump--
  Cameelious hump--
The hump that is black and blue!

We climb out of bed with a frouzly head
  And a snarly-yarly voice.
We shiver and scowl and we grunt and we growl
  At our bath and our boots and our toys!

And there ought to be a corner for me
(And I know there is one for you)
  When we get the hump--
  Cameelious hump--
The hump that is black and blue!

The cure for this ill is not to sit still,
  Or frowst with a book by the fire;
But to take a large hoe and a shovel also,
  And dig till you gently perspire.

And then you will find that the sun and the wind
And the Djinn of the Garden too,
  Have lifted the hump--
  The horrible hump--
The hump that is black and blue!

I get it as well as you-oo-oo,
If I haven't enough to do-oo-oo,
  We all get hump--
  Cameelious hump--
Kiddies and grown-ups too!
                         _Rudyard Kipling._

THE TREE

The Tree's early leaf buds were bursting their brown;
"Shall I take them away?" said the Frost, sweeping down.
  "No, leave them alone
  Till the blossoms have grown,"
Prayed the Tree, while he trembled from rootlet to crown.

The Tree bore his blossoms, and all the birds sung:
"Shall I take them away?" said the Wind, as he swung.
  "No, leave them alone
  Till the berries have grown,"
Said the Tree, while his leaflets quivering hung.

The Tree bore his fruit in the mid-summer glow:
Said the girl, "May I gather thy berries now?"
  "Yes, all thou canst see:
  Take them; all are for thee,"
Said the Tree, while he bent down his laden boughs low.
                        _Bjornstjerne Bjornson._

CHOOSING A NAME

I have got a new-born sister.
I was nigh the first that kissed her.
When the nursing-woman brought her
To papa, his infant daughter,
How papa's dear eyes did glisten!
She will shortly be to christen,
And papa has made the offer
I shall have the naming of her.

Now, I wonder what would please her--
Charlotte, Julia, or Louisa?
Ann and Mary, they're too common;
Joan's too formal for a woman;
Jane's a prettier name beside,
But we had a Jane that died.
They would say, if 'twas Rebecca,
That she was a little Quaker;
Edith's pretty, but that looks
Better in old English books;

Ellen's left off long ago;
Blanche is out of fashion now.
None that I have named as yet
Are so good as Margaret.
Emily is neat and fine;
What do you think of Caroline?
How I'm puzzled and perplexed
What to choose or think of next!
I am in a little fever
Lest the name that I should give her
Should disgrace her or defame her:--
I will leave papa to name her.
                        _Mary Lamb._

CALLING THE VIOLET

Dear little Violet,
  Don't be afraid!
Lift your blue eyes
  From the rock's mossy shade!
All the birds call for you
  Out of the sky:
May is here, waiting,
  And here, too, am I.

Why do you shiver so,
  Violet sweet?
Soft is the meadow-grass
  Under my feet.
Wrapped in your hood of green,
  Violet, why
Peep from your earth-door
  So silent and shy?

Trickle the little brooks
  Close to your bed;
Softest of fleecy clouds
  Float overhead;
"Ready and waiting!"
  The slender reeds sigh:
"Ready and waiting!"
  We sing--May and I.

Come, pretty Violet,
  Winter's away:
Come, for without you
  May isn't May.
Down through the sunshine
  Wings flutter and fly;--
Quick, little Violet,
  Open your eye!

Hear the rain whisper,
  "Dear Violet, come!"
How can you stay
  In your underground home?
Up in the pine-boughs
  For you the winds sigh.
Homesick to see you,
  Are we--May and I.

Ha! though you care not
  For call or for shout,
Yon troop of sunbeams
  Are winning you out.
Now all is beautiful
  Under the sky:
May's here--and violets!
  Winter, good-by!
                        _Lucy Larcom._

THE BROWN THRUSH

There's a merry brown thrush sitting up in the tree.
"He's singing to me! He's singing to me!"
And what does he say, little girl, little boy?
"Oh, the world's running over with joy!
  Don't you hear? Don't you see?
  Hush! Look! In my tree,
I'm as happy as happy can be!"

And the brown thrush keeps singing, "A nest do you see,
And five eggs, hid by me in the juniper tree?
Don't meddle! don't touch! little girl, little boy,
Or the world will lose some of its joy!
  Now I'm glad! now I'm free!
  And I always shall be,
If you never bring sorrow to me."

So the merry brown thrush sings away in the tree,
To you and to me, to you and to me;
And he sings all the day, little girl, little boy,
"Oh, the world's running over with joy!
  But long it won't be,
  Don't you know? Don't you see?
Unless we are as good as can be!"
                        _Lucy Larcom._

THE WIND AND THE MOON

Said the Wind to the Moon, "I will blow you out.
            You stare
            In the air
        Like a ghost in a chair,
Always looking what I am about;
I hate to be watched--I'll blow you out."

The Wind blew hard, and out went the Moon.
            So deep,
            On a heap
        Of clouds, to sleep,
Down lay the Wind, and slumbered soon--
Muttering low, "I've done for that Moon."

He turned in his bed; she was there again!
            On high
            In the sky
        With her one ghost eye,
The Moon shone white and alive and plain.
Said the Wind--"I will blow you out again."

The Wind blew hard, and the Moon grew dim.
            "With my sledge
            And my wedge
        I have knocked off her edge!
If only I blow right fierce and grim,
The creature will soon be dimmer than dim."

He blew and he blew, and she thinned to a thread.
            "One puff
            More's enough
        To blow her to snuff!
One good puff more where the last was bred,
And glimmer, glimmer, glum will go the thread!"

He blew a great blast, and the thread was gone;
            In the air
            Nowhere
        Was a moonbeam bare;
Far off and harmless the shy stars shone;
Sure and certain the Moon was gone.

The Wind, he took to his revels once more;
            On down
            In town,
        Like a merry-mad clown,
He leaped and hallooed with whistle and roar,
"What's that?" The glimmering thread once more!

He flew in a rage--he danced and blew;
            But in vain
            Was the pain
        Of his bursting brain;
For still the broader the Moon-scrap grew,
The broader he swelled his big cheeks and blew.

Slowly she grew--till she filled the night,
            And shone
            On her throne
        In the sky alone,
A matchless, wonderful, silvery light,
Radiant and lovely, the Queen of the night.

Said the Wind--"What a marvel of power am I!
            With my breath,
            Good faith!
        I blew her to death--
First blew her away right out of the sky--
Then blew her in; what strength have I!"

But the Moon, she knew nothing about the affair,
          For high
          In the sky,
       With her one white eye,
Motionless, miles above the air,
She had never heard the great Wind blare.
                         _George Macdonald._

A VISIT FROM ST. NICHOLAS

'Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the house
Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse;
The stockings were hung by the chimney with care,
In hopes that St. Nicholas soon would be there.
The children were nestled all snug in their beds,
While visions of sugar-plums danced in their heads;
And mamma in her kerchief, and I in my cap,
Had just settled our brains for a long winter's nap,--
When out on the lawn there arose such a clatter,
I sprang from my bed to see what was the matter.
Away to the window I flew like a flash,
Tore open the shutters and threw up the sash;
The moon on the breast of the new-fallen snow
Gave a luster of mid-day to objects below;
When, what to my wondering eyes should appear,
But a miniature sleigh and eight tiny reindeer,
With a little old driver, so lively and quick,
I knew in a moment it must be St. Nick.
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came,
And he whistled, and shouted, and called them by name:
"Now, Dasher! now, Dancer! now, Prancer and Vixen!
On, Comet! on, Cupid! on, Donder and Blitzen!--
To the top of the porch, to the top of the wall,
Now, dash away, dash away, dash away all!"
As dry leaves that before the wild hurricane fly,
When they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky,
So, up to the housetop the coursers they flew,
With the sleigh full of toys,--and St. Nicholas too.
And then, in a twinkling, I heard on the roof
The prancing and pawing of each little hoof.
As I drew in my head and was turning around,
Down the chimney St. Nicholas came with a bound;
He was dressed all in fur from his head to his foot,
And his clothes were all tarnished with ashes and soot;
A bundle of toys he had flung on his back,
And he looked like a peddler just opening his pack.
His eyes how they twinkled; his dimples how merry!
His cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry;
His droll little mouth was drawn up like a bow,
And the beard on his chin was as white as the snow.
The stump of a pipe he held tight in his teeth,
And the smoke, it encircled his head like a wreath.
He had a broad face and a little round belly
That shook when he laughed like a bowl full of jelly.
He was chubby and plump--a right jolly old elf--
And I laughed when I saw him, in spite of myself.
A wink of his eye, and a twist of his head,
Soon gave me to know I had nothing to dread.
He spoke not a word, but went straight to his work,
And filled all the stockings; then turned with a jerk,
And laying his finger aside of his nose,
And giving a nod, up the chimney he rose.
He sprang to his sleigh, to his team gave a whistle,
And away they all flew like the down of a thistle.
But I heard him exclaim, ere they drove out of sight,
"Happy Christmas to all, and to all a goodnight!"
                        _Clement C. Moore._

HUNTING SONG

Up, up! ye dames and lasses gay!
To the meadows trip away.
'Tis you must tend the flocks this morn,
And scare the small birds from the corn.
  Not a soul at home may stay:
    For the shepherds must go
    With lance and bow
  To hunt the wolf in the woods to-day.

Leave the hearth and leave the house
To the cricket and the mouse:
Find grannam out a sunny seat,
With babe and lambkin at her feet.
  Not a soul at home may stay:
    For the shepherds must go
    With lance and bow
  To hunt the wolf in the woods to-day.
                        _Samuel T. Coleridge._

THE FIR-TREE

The winds have blown more bitter
Each darkening day of fall;
High over all the house-tops
The stars are far and small
I wonder, will my fir-tree
Be green in spite of all?

O grief is colder--colder
Than wind from any part;
And tears of grief are bitter tears,
And doubt's a sorer smart!
But I promised to my fir-tree
To keep the fragrant heart.
               _Josephine Preston Peabody._

HOW THE LEAVES CAME DOWN

"I'll tell you how the leaves came down,"
  The great tree to his children said,
"You're getting sleepy, Yellow and Brown,
  Yes, very sleepy, little Red.
  It is quite time to go to bed."

"Ah!" begged each silly, pouting leaf,
  "Let us a little longer stay;
Dear Father Tree, behold our grief;
  Tis such a very pleasant day
  We do not want to go away."

So, for just one more merry day
  To the great tree the leaflets clung,
Frolicked and danced, and had their way,
  Upon the autumn breezes swung,
  Whispering all their sports among,--

"Perhaps the great tree will forget,
  And let us stay until the spring,
If we all beg, and coax, and fret."
  But the great tree did no such thing;
  He smiled to hear their whispering.

"Come, children, all to bed," he cried;
  And ere the leaves could urge their prayer,
He shook his head, and far and wide,
  Fluttering and rustling everywhere,
  Down sped the leaflets through the air.

I saw them; on the ground they lay,
  Golden and red, a huddled swarm,
Waiting till one from far away,
  White bedclothes heaped upon her arm,
  Should come to wrap them safe and warm.

The great bare tree looked down and smiled,
  "Good-night, dear little leaves," he said.
And from below each sleepy child
  Replied, "Good-night," and murmured,
  "It is so nice to go to bed!"
                             _Susan Coolidge._

THE LITTLE LADYBIRD

Ladybird, ladybird! fly away home!
  The field-mouse has gone to her nest,
The daisies have shut up their sleepy red eyes,
  And the bees and the birds are at rest.

Ladybird, ladybird! fly away home!
  The glow-worm is lighting her lamp,
The dew's falling fast, and your fine speckled wings
  Will flag with the close-clinging damp.

Ladybird, ladybird! fly away home!
  Good luck if you reach it at last!
The owl's come abroad, and the bat's on the roam,
  Sharp set from their Ramazan fast.

Ladybird, ladybird! fly away home!
  The fairy bells tinkle afar!
Make haste or they'll catch you, and harness you fast
  With a cobweb to Oberon's car.

Ladybird, ladybird! fly away home!
  To your house in the old willow-tree,
Where your children so dear have invited the ant
  And a few cozy neighbors to tea.

Ladybird, ladybird! fly away home!
  And if not gobbled up by the way,
Nor yoked by the fairies to Oberon's car,
  You're in luck! and that's all I've to say!
                       _Caroline B. Southey._

THE BLUEBIRD

I know the song that the bluebird is singing,
Out in the apple-tree where he is swinging;
Brave little fellow, the skies may look dreary;
Nothing cares he while his heart is so cheery.

Hark! how the music leaps out from his throat,
Hark! was there ever so merry a note?
Listen awhile and you'll hear what he's saying,
Up in the apple-tree swinging and swaying.

"Dear little blossoms down under the snow,
You must be weary of winter, I know;
Hark, while I sing you a message of cheer;
Summer is coming and spring-time is here!

"Little white snowdrop! I pray you arise;
Bright yellow crocus! come, open your eyes;
Sweet little violets, hid from the cold,
Put on your mantles of purple and gold;
Daffodils! daffodils! say, do you hear?--
Summer is coming and spring-time is here!"
                      _Emily Huntington Miller._

THE BLUE JAY

O Blue Jay up in the maple tree,
Shaking your throat with such bursts of glee,
How did you happen to be so blue?
Did you steal a bit of the lake for your crest,
And fasten blue violets into your vest?
Tell me, I pray you,--tell me true!

Did you dip your wings in azure dye,
When April began to paint the sky,
That was pale with the winter's stay?
Or were you hatched from a blue-bell bright,
'Neath the warm, gold breast of a sunbeam light,
By the river one blue spring day?

O Blue Jay up in the maple tree,
A-tossing your saucy head at me,
With ne'er a word for my questioning,
Pray, cease for a moment your "ting-a-link,"
And hear when I tell you what I think,--
You bonniest bit of spring.

I think when the fairies made the flowers,
To grow in these mossy fields of ours,
Periwinkles and violets rare,
There was left of the spring's own color, blue,
Plenty to fashion a flower whose hue
Would be richer than all and as fair.

So, putting their wits together, they
Made one great blossom so bright and gay,
The lily beside it seemed blurred:
And then they said, "We will toss it in air;
So many blue blossoms grow everywhere,
Let this pretty one be a bird."
                          _Susan Hartley Swett._

THE VIOLET

Down in a green and shady bed
  A modest violet grew;
Its stalk was bent, it hung its head,
  As if to hide from view.

And yet it was a lovely flower,
  Its colors bright and fair!
It might have graced a rosy bower,
  Instead of hiding there.

Yet there it was content to bloom,
  In modest tints arrayed;
And there diffused its sweet perfume,
  Within the silent shade.

Then let me to the valley go,
  This pretty flower to see,
That I may also learn to grow
  In sweet humility.
                        _Jane Taylor._

THE FERN SONG

Dance to the beat of the rain, little Fern,
And spread out your palms again,
  And say, "Tho' the Sun
  Hath my vesture spun,
He hath labored, alas, in vain,
  But for the shade
  That the Cloud hath made,
And the gift of the Dew and the Rain."
  Then laugh and upturn
  All your fronds, little Fern,
And rejoice in the beat of the rain!
                        _John Bannister Tabb._

KING SOLOMON AND THE BEES
_A Tale of the Talmud_

When Solomon was reigning in his glory,
  Unto his throne the Queen of Sheba came,
(So in the Talmud you may read the story)
  Drawn by the magic of the monarch's fame,
To see the splendors of his court, and bring
Some fitting tribute to the mighty king.

Nor this alone; much had her Highness heard
  What flowers of learning graced the royal speech;
What gems of wisdom dropped with every word;
  What wholesome lessons he was wont to teach
In pleasing proverbs; and she wished, in sooth,
To know if Rumor spoke the simple truth.

Besides, the queen had heard (which piqued her most)
  How through the deepest riddles he could spy;
How all the curious arts that women boast
  Were quite transparent to his piercing eye;
And so the queen had come--a royal guest--
To put the sage's cunning to the test.

And straight she held before the monarch's view,
  In either hand, a radiant wreath of flowers;
The one, bedecked with every charming hue,
  Was newly culled from Nature's choicest bowers;
The other, no less fair in every part,
Was the rare product of divinest Art.

"Which is the true, and which the false?" she said,
  Great Solomon was silent. All-amazed,
Each wondering courtier shook his puzzled head,
  While at the garlands long the monarch gazed,
As one who sees a miracle, and fain,
For very rapture, ne'er would speak again.

"Which is the true?" once more the woman asked,
  Pleased at the fond amazement of the king;
"So wise a head should not be hardly tasked,
  Most learned liege, with such a trivial thing!"
But still the sage was silent; it was plain
A deepening doubt perplexed the royal brain.

While thus he pondered, presently he sees,
  Hard by the casement,--so the story goes,--
A little band of busy, bustling bees,
  Hunting for honey in a withered rose.
The monarch smiled, and raised his royal head;
"Open the window!"--that was all he said.

The window opened at the king's command;
  Within the room the eager insects flew,
And sought the flowers in Sheba's dexter hand!
  And so the king and all the courtiers knew
That wreath was Nature's; and the baffled queen
Returned to tell the wonders she had seen.

My story teaches (every tale should bear
  A fitting moral) that the wise may find
In trifles light as atoms in the air,
  Some useful lesson to enrich the mind,
Some truth designed to profit or to please,--
As Israel's king learned wisdom from the bees!
                        _John G. Saxe._

LULLABY OF AN INFANT CHIEF

O hush thee, my baby, thy sire was a knight,--
Thy mother a lady both lovely and bright;
The woods and the glens, from the towers which we see,
They all are belonging, dear baby, to thee.

O fear not the bugle, though loudly it blows,
It calls but the warders that guard thy repose;
Their bows would be bended, their blades would be red,
Ere the step of a foeman drew near to thy bed.

O hush thee, my baby, the time soon will come,
When thy sleep shall be broken by trumpet and drum;
Then hush thee, my darling, take rest while you may,
For strife comes with manhood, and waking with day.
                                        _Sir Walter Scott._

HAIL, COLUMBIA!

Hail, Columbia! happy land!
Hail, ye heroes! heaven-born band!
  Who fought and bled in Freedom's cause,
  Who fought and bled in Freedom's cause,
And when the storm of war was gone,

Enjoyed the peace your valor won.
  Let independence be our boast,
  Ever mindful what it cost;
  Ever grateful for the prize,
  Let its altar reach the skies.

    Firm, united, let us be,
    Rallying round our Liberty;
    As a band of brothers joined,
    Peace and safety we shall find.

Immortal patriots! rise once more:
Defend your rights, defend your shore:
  Let no rude foe, with impious hand,
  Let no rude foe, with impious hand,
Invade the shrine where sacred lies
Of toil and blood the well-earned prize.
  While offering peace sincere and just,
  In Heaven we place a manly trust,
  That truth and justice will prevail,
  And every scheme of bondage fail.

Sound, sound, the trump of Fame!
Let WASHINGTON'S great name
  Ring through the world with loud applause;
  Ring through the world with loud applause;
Let every clime to Freedom dear,
Listen with a joyful ear.
  With equal skill, and godlike power,
  He governed in the fearful hour
  Of horrid war; or guides, with ease,
  The happier times of honest peace.

Behold the chief who now commands,
Once more to serve his country, stands--
  The rock on which the storm will beat,
  The rock on which the storm will beat;
But, armed in virtue firm and true,
His hopes are fixed on Heaven and you;
  When hope was sinking in dismay,
  And glooms obscured Columbia's day,
  His steady mind, from changes free,
  Resolved on death or liberty.
                           _Joseph Hopkinson._

THE SNOWDROP

Many, many welcomes,
February fair-maid!
Ever as of old time,
Solitary firstling,
Coming in the cold time,
Prophet of the gay time,
Prophet of the May time,
Prophet of the roses,
Many, many welcomes,
February fair-maid!
              _Alfred, Lord Tennyson._

THE OWL

When cats run home and light is come,
  And dew is cold upon the ground,
And the far-off stream is dumb,
  And the whirring sail goes round,
  And the whirring sail goes round,
    Alone and warming his five wits,
    The white owl in the belfry sits.

When merry milkmaids click the latch,
  And rarely smells the new-mown hay,
And the cock hath sung beneath the thatch
  Twice or thrice his roundelay,
  Twice or thrice his roundelay;
    Alone and warming his five wits,
    The white owl in the belfry sits.
                        _Alfred, Lord Tennyson._

A TRAGIC STORY

There lived a sage in days of yore,
And he a handsome pigtail wore;
But wondered much and sorrowed more
  Because it hung behind him.

He mused upon this curious case,
And swore he'd change the pigtail's place,
And have it hanging at his face,
  Not dangling there behind him.

Said he, "The mystery I've found,--
I'll turn me round."--
He turned him round;
  But still it hung behind him.

Then round and round, and out and in,
All day the puzzled sage did spin;
In vain--it mattered not a pin--
  The pigtail hung behind him.

And right, and left, and round about,
And up, and down, and in, and out
He turned; but still the pigtail stout
  Hung steadily behind him.

And though his efforts never slack,
And though he twist, and twirl, and tack,
Alas! still faithful to his back
  The pigtail hangs behind him.
                        _William M. Thackeray._

A CHRISTMAS CAROL

  There's a song in the air!
  There's a star in the sky!
  There's a mother's deep prayer
  And a baby's low cry!
And the star rains its fire while the Beautiful sing,
For the manger of Bethlehem cradles a king.

    There's a tumult of joy
    O'er the wonderful birth,
    For the virgin's sweet boy
    Is the Lord of the earth.
Ay! the star rains its fire and the Beautiful sing,
For the manger of Bethlehem cradles a king.

    In the light of that star
    Lie the ages impearled;
    And that song from afar
    Has swept over the world.
Every hearth is aflame, and the Beautiful sing
In the homes of the nations that Jesus is King.

    We rejoice in the light,
    And we echo the song
    That comes down through the night
    From the heavenly throng.
Ay! we shout to the lovely evangel they bring,
And we greet in his cradle our Saviour and King.
                        _J.G. Holland._

THE WONDERFUL WORLD

"Great, wide, beautiful, wonderful world,
With the wonderful water round you curled,
And the wonderful grass upon your breast,--
World, you are beautifully drest.

"The wonderful air is over me,
And the wonderful wind is shaking the tree,
It walks on the water, and whirls the mills,
And talks to itself on the tops of the hills.

"You friendly Earth! how far do you go
With the wheat-fields that nod and the rivers that flow,
With cities and gardens, and cliffs, and isles
And people upon you for thousands of miles?

"Ah, you are so great, and I am so small,
I tremble to think of you, World, at all;
And yet, when I said my prayers, to-day,
A whisper inside me seemed to say,
'You are more than the Earth, though you are such a dot:
You can love and think, and the Earth cannot!"
                       _William B. Rands._

NOBODY KNOWS

Often I've heard the Wind sigh
  By the ivied orchard wall,
Over the leaves in the dark night,
  Breathe a sighing call,
And faint away in the silence,
  While I, in my bed,
Wondered, 'twixt dreaming and waking,
  What it said.

Nobody knows what the Wind is,
  Under the height of the sky,
Where the hosts of the stars keep far away house
  And its wave sweeps by--
Just a great wave of the air,
  Tossing the leaves in its sea,
And foaming under the eaves of the roof
  That covers me.

And so we live under deep water,
  All of us, beasts and men,
And our bodies are buried down under the sand,
  When we go again;
And leave, like the fishes, our shells,
  And float on the Wind and away,
To where, o'er the marvellous tides of the air,
  Burns day.
                           _Walter de la Mare._

THE TRUANTS

Ere my heart beats too coldly and faintly
  To remember sad things, yet be gay,
I would sing a brief song of the world's little children
  Magic hath stolen away.

The primroses scattered by April,
  The stars of the wide Milky Way,
Cannot outnumber the hosts of the children
  Magic hath stolen away.

The buttercup green of the meadows,
  The snow of the blossoming may,
Lovelier are not than the legions of children
  Magic hath stolen away.

The waves tossing surf in the moonbeam,
  The albatross lone on the spray,
Alone know the tears wept in vain for the children
  Magic hath stolen away.

In vain: for at hush of the evening,
  When the stars twinkle into the grey,
Seems to echo the far-away calling of children
  Magic hath stolen away.
                         _Walter de la Mare._

WILL EVER?

Will he ever be weary of wandering,
  The flaming sun?
Ever weary of waning in lovelight,
  The white still moon?
Will ever a shepherd come
  With a crook of simple gold,
And lead all the little stars
  Like lambs to the fold?

Will ever the Wanderer sail
  From over the sea,
Up the river of water,
  To the stones to me?
Will he take us all into his ship,
  Dreaming, and waft us far,
To where in the clouds of the West,
  The Islands are?
                       _Walter de la Mare._

WANDERERS

Wide are the meadows of night,
And daisies are shining there,
Tossing their lovely dews,
Lustrous and fair;
And through these sweet fields go,
Wanderers amid the stars--
Venus, Mercury, Uranus, Neptune,
Saturn, Jupiter, Mars.

'Tired in their silver, they move,
And circling, whisper and say,
Fair are the blossoming meads of delight
Through which we stray.
                       _Walter de la Mare._

CHRISTMAS

While shepherds watched their flocks by night,
  All seated on the ground,
The angel of the Lord came down,
  And glory shone around.

"Fear not," said he,--for mighty dread
  Had seized their troubled mind--
"Glad tidings of great joy I bring
  To you and all mankind.

"To you, in David's town, this day
  Is born, of David's line,
The Saviour, who is Christ the Lord;
  And this shall be the sign:

"The heavenly babe you there shall find
  To human view displayed,
All meanly wrapped in swathing bands,
  And in a manger laid."

Thus spake the seraph; and forthwith
  Appeared a shining throng
Of angels, praising God, and thus
  Addressed their joyful song:

"All glory be to God on high,
  And to the earth be peace:
Good-will henceforth from heaven to men
  Begin and never cease!"
                        _Nahum Tate._

THE SNOW-BIRD'S SONG

The ground was all covered with snow one day,
And two little sisters were busy at play,
When a snow-bird was sitting close by on a tree,
And merrily singing his chick-a-dee-dee,
       Chick-a-dee-dee, chick-a-dee-dee,
And merrily singing his chick-a-dee-dee.

He had not been singing that tune very long,
Ere Emily heard him, so loud was his song;
"Oh, sister, look out of the window," said she,
"Here's a dear little bird singing chick-a-dee-dee.
       Chick-a-dee-dee, chick-a-dee-dee,
Here's a dear little bird singing chick-a-dee-dee.

"Oh, mother, do get him some stockings and shoes,
And a nice little frock, and a hat if you choose;
I wish he'd come into the parlor, and see
How warm we would make him, poor chick-a-dee-dee!
      Chick-a-dee-dee, chick-a-dee-dee,
How warm we would make him, poor chick-a-dee-dee!"

"There is One, my dear child, though I cannot tell who,
Has clothed me already, and warm enough too.
Good morning! Oh, who are so happy as we?"
And away he went singing his chick-a-dee-dee.
      Chick-a-dee-dee, chick-a-dee-dee,
And away he went singing his chick-a-dee-dee.
                                      _F.C. Woodworth._

SPRING

The alder by the river
  Shakes out her powdery curls;
The willow buds in silver
  For little boys and girls.

The little birds fly over
  And oh, how sweet they sing!
To tell the happy children
  That once again 'tis spring.

The gay green grass comes creeping
  So soft beneath their feet;
The frogs begin to ripple
  A music clear and sweet.

And buttercups are coming,
  And scarlet columbine,
And in the sunny meadows
  The dandelions shine.

And just as many daisies
  As their soft hands can hold
The little ones may gather,
  All fair in white and gold.

Here blows the warm red clover,
  There peeps the violet blue;
O happy little children!
  God made them all for you.
                         _Celia Thaxter._

THE SANDPIPER

Across the narrow beach we flit,
  One little sandpiper and I;
And fast I gather, bit by bit,
  The scattered driftwood bleached and dry.
The wild waves reach their hands for it,
  The wild wind raves, the tide runs high,
As up and down the beach we flit,
  One little sandpiper and I.

Above our heads the sullen clouds
  Scud black and swift across the sky;
Like silent ghosts in misty shrouds
  Stand out the white lighthouses high.
Almost as far as eye can reach
  I see the close-reefed vessels fly,
As fast we flit along the beach,--
  One little sandpiper and I.

I watch him as he skims along,
  Uttering his sweet and mournful cry;
He starts not at my fitful song,
  Or flash of fluttering drapery.
He has no thought of any wrong;
  He scans me with a fearless eye.
Staunch friends are we, well tried and strong,
  The little sandpiper and I.

Comrade, where wilt thou be to-night
  When the loosed storm breaks furiously?
My driftwood fire will burn so bright!
  To what warm shelter canst thou fly?
I do not fear for thee, though wroth
The tempest rushes through the sky:
  For are we not God's children both,
Thou, little sandpiper, and I?
                         _Celia Thaxter._

O LITTLE TOWN OF BETHLEHEM

O little town of Bethlehem,
  How still we see thee lie!
Above thy deep and dreamless sleep
  The silent stars go by;
Yet in thy dark streets shineth
  The everlasting Light;
The hopes and fears of all the years
  Are met in thee to-night.

For Christ is born of Mary,
  And, gathered all above,
While mortals sleep, the angels keep
  Their watch of wondering love.
O morning stars, together
  Proclaim the holy birth!
And praises sing to God the King,
  And peace to men on earth.

How silently, how silently,
  The wondrous gift is given!
So God imparts to human hearts
  The blessings of His heaven.
No ear may hear His coming,
  But in this world of sin,
Where meek souls will receive Him still,
  The dear Christ enters in.

O holy Child of Bethlehem!
  Descend to us, we pray;
Cast out our sin, and enter in,
  Be born in us to-day.
We hear the Christmas angels
  The great glad tidings tell;
Oh, come to us, abide with us,
  Our Lord Emmanuel!
                       _Phillips Brooks._

THE SANDMAN

The rosy clouds float overhead,
  The sun is going down,
And now the sandman's gentle tread
  Comes stealing through the town.

    "White sand, white sand," he softly cries,
      And, as he shakes his hand,
    Straightway there lies on babies' eyes
      His gift of shining sand.
Blue eyes, gray eyes, black eyes, and brown,
As shuts the rose, they softly close, when he
     goes through the town.

    From sunny beaches far away,
      Yes, in another land,
    He gathers up at break of day
      His store of shining sand.
    No tempests beat that shore remote,
      No ships may sail that way;
    His little boat alone may float
      Within that lovely bay.
Blue eyes, gray eyes, black eyes, and brown,
As shuts the rose, they softly close, when he
     goes through the town.

    He smiles to see the eyelids close
      Above the happy eyes!
    And every child right well he knows--
      Oh, he is very wise!
    But if, as he goes through the land,
      A naughty baby cries,
    His other hand takes dull gray sand
      To close the wakeful eyes.
Blue eyes, gray eyes, black eyes, and brown,
As shuts the rose, they softly close, when he
     goes through the town.

  So when you hear the sandman's song
    Sound through the twilight sweet,
  Be sure you do not keep him long
    A-waiting on the street.
  Lie softly down, dear little head,
    Rest quiet, busy hands,
  Till, by your bed his good-night said,
    He strews the shining sands.
Blue eyes, gray eyes, black eyes, and brown,
As shuts the rose, they softly close, when he
     goes through the town.
                        _Margaret Vandegrift._

RED RIDING-HOOD

On the wide lawn the snow lay deep,
Ridged o'er with many a drifted heap;
The wind that through the pine-trees sung
The naked elm-boughs tossed and swung;
While, through the window, frosty-starred,
Against the sunset purple barred,
We saw the sombre crow flap by,
The hawk's gray fleck along the sky,

The crested blue-jay flitting swift,
The squirrel poising on the drift,
Erect, alert, his broad gray tail
Set to the north wind like a sail.
It came to pass, our little lass,
With flattened face against the glass,
And eyes in which the tender dew
Of pity shone, stood gazing through
The narrow space her rosy lips
Had melted from the frost's eclipse:
"Oh, see," she cried, "the poor blue-jays!
What is it that the black crow says?
The squirrel lifts his little legs
Because he has no hands, and begs;
He's asking for my nuts, I know;
May I not feed them on the snow?"

Half lost within her boots, her head
Warm-sheltered in her hood of red,
Her plaid skirt close about her drawn,
She floundered down the wintry lawn;
Now struggling through the misty veil
Blown round her by the shrieking gale;
Now sinking in a drift so low
Her scarlet hood could scarcely show
Its dash of color on the snow.

She dropped for bird and beast forlorn
Her little store of nuts and corn,
And thus her timid guests bespoke:
"Come, squirrel, from your hollow oak,--
Come, black old crow,--come, poor blue-jay,
Before your supper's blown away!
Don't be afraid, we all are good;
And I'm mamma's Red Riding-Hood!"

O Thou whose care is over all,
Who heedest even the sparrow's fall,
Keep in the little maiden's breast
The pity which is now its guest!
Let not her cultured years make less
The childhood charm of tenderness,
But let her feel as well as know,
Nor harder with her polish grow!
Unmoved by sentimental grief
That wails along some printed leaf,
But prompt with kindly word and deed
To own the claims of all who need,
Let the grown woman's self make good
The promise of Red Riding-Hood!
                     _John G. Whittier._

THE SONG SPARROW

There is a bird I know so well,
  It seems as if he must have sung
  Beside my crib when I was young;
Before I knew the way to spell
  The name of even the smallest bird,
  His gentle, joyful song I heard.
Now see if you can tell, my dear,
What bird it is, that every year,
Sings "Sweet--sweet--sweet--very merry cheer."

He comes in March, when winds are strong,
  And snow returns to hide the earth;
  But still he warms his head with mirth,
And waits for May. He lingers long
  While flowers fade, and every day
  Repeats his sweet, contented lay;
As if to say we need not fear
The season's change, if love is here,
With "Sweet--sweet--sweet--very merry cheer."

He does not wear a Joseph's coat
  Of many colors, smart and gay;
  His suit is Quaker brown and gray,
With darker patches at his throat.
  And yet of all the well-dressed throng,
  Not one can sing so brave a song.
It makes the pride of looks appear
A vain and foolish thing to hear
His "Sweet--sweet--sweet--very merry cheer."
                           _Henry van Dyke._

I REMEMBER, I REMEMBER

I remember, I remember,
  The house where I was born,
The little window where the sun
  Came peeping in at morn;
He never came a wink too soon,
  Nor brought too long a day;
But now, I often wish the night
  Had borne my breath away.

I remember, I remember,
  The roses, red and white;
The violets and the lily-cups,
  Those flowers made of light!
The lilacs where the robin built,
  And where my brother set
The laburnum on his birthday,--
  The tree is living yet!

I remember, I remember,
  Where I was used to swing;
And thought the air must rush as fresh
  To swallows on the wing;
My spirit flew in feathers then,
  That is so heavy now,
And summer pools could hardly cool
  The fever on my brow!

I remember, I remember,
  The fir trees dark and high;
I used to think their slender tops
  Were close against the sky;
It was a childish ignorance,
  But now 'tis little joy
To know I'm farther off from Heaven
  Than when I was a boy.
                         _Thomas Hood._

TALKING IN THEIR SLEEP

    "You think I am dead,"
    The apple tree said,
"Because I have never a leaf to show--
    Because I stoop,
    And my branches droop,
And the dull gray mosses over me grow!
But I'm still alive in trunk and shoot;
    The buds of next May
    I fold away--
But I pity the withered grass at my root."

    "You think I am dead,"
    The quick grass said,
"Because I have parted with stem and blade!
    But under the ground
    I am safe and sound
With the snow's thick blanket over me laid.
I'm all alive, and ready to shoot,
    Should the spring of the year
    Come dancing here--
But I pity the flower without branch or root."
    "You think I am dead,"
    A soft voice said,
"Because not a branch or root I own.
    I never have died,
    But close I hide
In a plumy seed that the wind has sown.
Patient I wait through the long winter hours;
    You will see me again--
    I shall laugh at you then,
Out of the eyes of a hundred flowers."
                              _Edith M. Thomas._

LITTLE DANDELION

Little bud Dandelion
  Hears from her nest,
"Merry heart, starry eye,
  Wake from your rest!"
Wide ope the emerald lids;
  Robin's above;
Wise little Dandelion
  Smiles at his love.

Cold lie the daisy-banks,
  Clad but in green,
Where in the Mays agone
  Bright hues were seen.
Wild pinks are slumbering,
  Violets delay--
True little Dandelion
  Greeteth the May.

Meek little Dandelion
  Groweth more fair,
Till dries the amber dew
  Out from her hair.
High rides the thirsty sun,
  Fiercely and high,--
Faint little Dandelion
  Closeth her eye.

Dead little Dandelion,
  In her white shroud,
Heareth the angel-breeze
  Call from the cloud.
Tiny plumes fluttering
  Make no delay,
Little winged Dandelion
  Soareth away.
                _Helen L. Bostwick._

*       *       *       *       *
*       *       *       *       *

INDEX OF TITLES

Afternoon in February               _Henry W. Longfellow_
Ant and the Cricket, The                      _Anonymous_
April Day, An                       _Henry W. Longfellow_
April Welcome, An                           _Phoebe Cary_
Autumn                                       _Alice Cary_
Autumn Fires                     _Robert Louis Stevenson_

Ballad of the Tempest, The              _James T. Fields_
Birds in Summer                             _Mary Howitt_
Bluebird, The                   _Emily Huntington Miller_
Blue Jay, The                       _Susan Hartley Swett_
"Bob White"                               _George Cooper_
Brook-Song, The                    _James Whitcomb Riley_
Brown Thrush, The                           _Lucy Larcom_
Busy Day, A                                   _Anonymous_

Calling the Violet                          _Lucy Larcom_
Camel's Hump, The                       _Rudyard Kipling_
Captain's Daughter, The          (See "Ballad of the Tempest")
Chestnut Burr, The                            _Anonymous_
Child's Prayer, A                    _Matilda B. Edwards_
Child's Thought of God, A    _Elizabeth Barrett Browning_
Choosing a Name                               _Mary Lamb_
Christmas                                    _Nahum Tate_
Christmas Carol, A                         _J.G. Holland_

Daisies, The                               _Bliss Carman_
Dandelion                                 _Kate L. Brown_
Dandelions, The                         _Helen Gray Cone_
Day, A                                  _Emily Dickinson_
Daybreak                            _Henry W. Longfellow_
Don't Kill the Birds                     _J. Colesworthy_
Dove, The                                    _John Keats_
"Down to Sleep"                      _Helen Hunt Jackson_

Emperor's Bird's Nest, The          _Henry W. Longfellow_

Fable, A                            _Ralph Waldo Emerson_
Fairies of the Caldon Low, The              _Mary Howitt_
Fairy Queen, The                              _Anonymous_
Fairy Song                                   _John Keats_
Fairy Tale, A                           _Helen Gray Cone_
Farewell, A                            _Charles Kingsley_
Fern Song, The                      _John Bannister Tabb_
Fir-Tree, The                 _Josephine Preston Peabody_
Fraidie-Cat                            _Clinton Scollard_

Grass, The                              _Emily Dickinson_

Hail, Columbia!                        _Joseph Hopkinson_
Hiawatha's Fishing                  _Henry W. Longfellow_
Hiawatha's Friends                  _Henry W. Longfellow_
Hiawatha's Hunting                  _Henry W. Longfellow_
Hiawatha's Sailing                  _Henry W. Longfellow_
How the Leaves Came Down                 _Susan Coolidge_
Hunting Song                        _Samuel T. Coleridge_

I Remember, I Remember                      _Thomas Hood_

Jack Frost                               _Gabriel Setoun_
Jack Frost                              _Hannah F. Gould_
Jack in the Pulpit                          _Clara Smith_
Jumblies, The                               _Edward Lear_

King Solomon and the Bees                  _John G. Saxe_
Kriss Kringle                     _Thomas Bailey Aldrich_

Land of Dreams, The                       _William Blake_
Land of Story-Books, The         _Robert Louis Stevenson_
Laughing Chorus, A                            _Anonymous_
Laughing Song, A                          _William Blake_
Lesson of Mercy, A                           _Alice Cary_
Life Lesson, A                     _James Whitcomb Riley_
Little by Little                              _Anonymous_
Little Dandelion                      _Helen L. Bostwick_
Little Gottlieb                             _Phoebe Cary_
Little Ladybird, The                _Caroline B. Southey_
Little Orphant Annie               _James Whitcomb Riley_
Lobster Quadrille, A                      _Lewis Carroll_
Lost Doll, The                         _Charles Kingsley_
Lullaby for Titania                 _William Shakespeare_
Lullaby of an Infant Chief             _Sir Walter Scott_

Marjorie's Almanac                _Thomas Bailey Aldrich_
Morning Song, A                     _William Shakespeare_

Night                                     _William Blake_
Night Wind, The                            _Eugene Field_
Nobody Knows                          _Walter de la Mare_
November                                     _Alice Gary_

October's Bright Blue Weather        _Helen Hunt Jackson_
Old Christmas                               _Mary Howitt_
"Old, Old Song," The                   _Charles Kingsley_
O Little Town of Bethlehem              _Phillips Brooks_
Our Heroes                                  _Phoebe Cary_
Owl, The                          _Alfred, Lord Tennyson_

Pig and the Hen, The                         _Alice Gary_
Pirate Story                     _Robert Louis Stevenson_
Pobble Who Has No Toes, The                 _Edward Lear_

Quangle Wangle's Hat, The                   _Edward Lear_

Rainbow, The                         _William Wordsworth_
Rain in Summer                      _Henry W. Longfellow_
Rainy Day, The                      _Henry W. Longfellow_
Red Riding-Hood                        _John G. Whittier_
Robert of Lincoln                 _William Cullen Bryant_
Robin Redbreast                       _William Allingham_
Romance                                  _Gabriel Setoun_

Sandman, The                        _Margaret Vandegrift_
Sandpiper, The                            _Celia Thaxter_
September                            _Helen Hunt Jackson_
Snow-bird's Song, The                    _F.C. Woodworth_
Snowdrop, The                     _Alfred, Lord Tennyson_
Song of the Fairy                   _William Shakespeare_
Song Sparrow, The                        _Henry van Dyke_
Spider and the Fly, The                     _Mary Howitt_
Spring                                    _Celia Thaxter_

Talking in Their Sleep                  _Edith M. Thomas_
Thanksgiving Fable, A                    _Oliver Herford_
Three Fishers, The                     _Charles Kingsley_
To a Butterfly                       _William Wordsworth_
Tragic Story, A                    _William M. Thackeray_
Tree, The                         _Bjornstjerne Bjornson_
Truants, The                          _Walter de la Mare_

Under the Greenwood Tree            _William Shakespeare_
Unseen Playmate, The             _Robert Louis Stevenson_

Violet, The                                 _Jane Taylor_
Visit from St. Nicholas, A             _Clement C. Moore_
Voice of Spring, The                        _Mary Howitt_

Waiting to Grow                            _Frank French_
Walrus and the Carpenter, The             _Lewis Carroll_
Wanderers                             _Walter de la Mare_
We Are Seven                         _William Wordsworth_
While Shepherds Watched Their Flocks By Night (See "Christmas")
White Seal                              _Rudyard Kipling_
Will Ever?                            _Walter de la Mare_
Wind and the Moon, The                _.George Macdonald_
Wind in a Frolic, The                    _William Howitt_
Wind, The                        _Robert Louis Stevenson_
Winter                              _William Shakespeare_
Winter-Time                      _Robert Louis Stevenson_
Wishing                               _William Allingham_
Wonderful World, The                   _William B. Rands_
World's Music, The                       _Gabriel Setoun_

*       *       *       *       *
*       *       *       *       *

INDEX OF FIRST LINES

A boy named Peter
Across the German Ocean
Across the narrow beach we flit
"And where have you been, my Mary
A silly young cricket, accustomed to sing
A simple Child
At evening when the lamp is lit
"Awake, awake, my little boy!
A wee little nut lay deep in its nest
A wind came up out of the sea

Come, follow, follow me
Come up, April, through the valley

Dance to the beat of the rain, little Fern
Dear little Violet
Don't kill the birds, the pretty birds
Down in a green and shady bed

Ere my heart beats too coldly and faintly

Forth into the forest straightway
Forth upon the Gitche Gumee

"Give me of your bark, O Birch-Tree!
God make my life a little light
Good-bye, good-bye to Summer
"Great, wide, beautiful, wonderful world

Hail, Columbia! happy land!
Hark! hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings
Have you ever heard the wind go "Yooooo"?
He is a roguish little elf
Here's a hand to the boy who has courage
How beautiful is the rain!
How pleasant the life of a bird must be

I am coming, I am coming!
I had a dove, and the sweet dove died
I have got a new-born sister
I know the song that the bluebird is singing
"I'll tell you how the leaves came down"
I'll tell you how the sun rose
In the other gardens
I once had a sweet little doll, dears
I remember, I remember
I saw a ship a-sailing
I saw you toss the kites on high
I see you, on the zigzag rails
I shan't tell you what's his name
It was a hungry pussy cat, upon Thanksgiving morn
I've watched you now a full half hour

Jack in the pulpit
Just as the moon was fading

Ladybird, ladybird! fly away home!
Late lies the wintry sun a-bed
Little brook! Little brook!
Little bud Dandelion
"Little by little," an acorn said
Little Orphant Annie's come to our house to stay
Little white snowdrop just waking up

Many, many welcomes
Merrily swinging on briar and weed
My fairest child, I have no song to give you
My heart leaps up when I behold

November woods are bare and still
Now he who knows old Christmas

O Blue Jay up in the maple tree
Often I've heard the Wind sigh
Oh I hush thee, my baby, the night is behind us
Oh, such a commotion under the ground
O hush thee, my baby, thy sire was a knight
O little town of Bethlehem
Once the Emperor Charles of Spain
On the top of the Crumpetty Tree
On the wide lawn the snow lay deep
O suns and skies and clouds of June
Over hill, over dale
Over the shoulders and slopes of the dune

Ring-Ting! I wish I were a Primrose
Robins in the tree-top

Said the Wind to the Moon, "I will blow you out
Shed no tear! oh, shed no tear!
Shorter and shorter now the twilight clips

The alder by the river
The bluff March wind set out from home
The Camel's hump is an ugly lump
The day is cold, and dark, and dreary
The day is ending
The door was shut, as doors should be
The Frost looked forth one still, clear night
The goldenrod is yellow
The grass so little has to do
The ground was all covered with snow one day
The leaves are fading and falling
The mountain and the squirrel
The pig and the hen
The Pobble who has no toes
There is a bird I know so well
There! little girl! don't cry!
There lived a sage in days of yore
There's a merry brown thrush sitting up in the tree
There's a song in the air
There stands by the wood-path shaded
The rosy clouds float overhead
The sun descending in the west
The sun was shining on the sea
The Tree's early leaf buds were bursting their brown
The wind one morning sprang up from sleep
The winds have blown more bitter
The world's a very happy place
They say that God lives very high
They went to sea in a sieve, they did
Three fishers went sailing away to the west
Three of us afloat in the meadow by the swing
'Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the house
Two good friends had Hiawatha

Under the greenwood tree
Upon a showery night and still
Up, up! ye dames and lasses gay!

We were crowded in the cabin
When all the world is young, lad
When cats run home and light is come
When children are playing alone on the green
When icicles hang by the wall
When Solomon was reigning in his glory
When the green woods laugh with the voice of joy
When the warm sun, that brings
While shepherds watched their flocks by night
Wide are the meadows of night
Will he ever be weary of wandering
"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail
"Will you walk into my parlor?"

You spotted snakes with double tongue
"You think I am dead"the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

FUN & NONSENSE

By Willard Bonte

INTRODUCTION

  Fun and Nonsense are a pair
    Of merry little twins,
  And when they come to visit us
    They bring their friends, the Grins.

  They're coming now to visit you.
    This page we'll call the door.
  To open wide, just turn the leaf.
    Why, we have met before!

THE BARBER

  Said Chocolate Drop the Barber,
  "Why, bless my ugly soul!
  I'll ask that stick of peppermint
  To be my Barber pole."

THE REFUSAL

  "Dear, sweet Lady Cracker,
  My passions you know."
  "And I scorn them, Judge Wafer,
  As you're lacking in dough."

A HOPELESS CASE

  "What is the use?" quoth the Whitewash Brush,
  "I'll comb my hair no more;
  For try as I will to make it lie,
  It still stays pompadour."

THE GREENHORN

  A lettuce walking out one day,
  Lost his head, so lost his way;
  A Pumpkin happened on the scene,
  And said it came from being green.

OLD MR. MATCH

  Old Mr. Match gave his head a good scratch,
  And his face lighted up with a smile;
  "It is getting quite dark, but with my cheery spark
  I will lengthen the day for awhile."

THOUGHTS UNSTRUNG

  "Alas! I fear my mind doth wander.
  As o'er this narrative I ponder;
  I usually know what I have read,
  But this time I have lost the Thread."

THE MISER

  The Pocketbook has money,
  On that subject he is daft;
  But when one strikes him for a loan
  He answers, "I am strapped."

DR. KEY'S ANSWER

  "Shine?" inquired the Monkey Wrench
  Of Stately Doctor Key;
  "No!" replied that haughty soul.
  "No Monkey-shines for me."

THE CHASE

  Mr. Brush on his steed, dashing with speed,
  Was asked if he had time to spare;
  Said he, with a smile, "I'll be back in a while,
  But at present I'm hunting the hair."

A RISING DOCTOR

  "Dr. Yeast-Cake, it's hard for me to speak,
  As I haven't risen for more than a week."
  "Take this, Mr. Roll, and never you fear;
  You'll rise before morning, so be of good cheer."

THE SAILOR BOLD

  Pilot Von Pretzel's a crusty old salt
  Who wears a rich shade of tan;
  Which he did not acquire at sea, by the way,
  But in a warm baking-pan.

OVERHEARD IN THE CORN-FIELD

  Said young Mr. Pumpkin,
  To old Mr. Squash,
  "Do you think Mr. Corn overhears
  What we say when we talk
  Of his self-conscious stalk,
  And his moving Miss Melon to tears?"

  "I cannot decide,"
  Mr. Squash then replied,
  "But I've had my suspicions for years;
  Because he's so tall
  He can lean over all;
  Then look at the size of his ears."

TWINS

  "There go the Scissor twins.
  Cutting as ever.
  Some think them sharp.
  But few think them clever."

A SHARP LOVER

  "I dread you much, my little miss,
  You're such a dainty thing,
  I fear although quite sharp myself,
  You've got me on the string."

THE GREEDY LITTLE PITCHERS

  "Now, my pretty little dears,
  Little Pitchers have big ears;
  But never let me hear it said
  That your mouths are big instead."

OBLIGING MR. HAMMER

  Old Mr. Hammer
  Was so very, very good,
  That he gave Mr. Shingle Nail
  A drive through the wood.

THE MALICIOUS BRUSH

  When poor little Hand-Glass
  Was loudly berated
  For casting reflections,
  The Brush was elated.

THE WISE PEN

  There was a Pen in our town
  And he was wondrous wise;
  He knew just when to cross his T's
  And when to dot his I's;
  But one small thing he did not know,
  A simple thing at that;
  He did not know 'twas nice to wipe
  His feet off, on the mat.

UNDER THE WINDOW

by

KATE GREENAWAY

UNDER THE WINDOW

Pictures & Rhymes for Children

by

KATE GREENAWAY

London
Frederick Warne & Co. Ltd.
& New York

Printed in Great Britain

CONTENTS

                                                          PAGE

  Under the window is my garden,

  Will you be my little wife,

  You see, merry Phillis, that dear little maid,

  Three tabbies took out their cats to tea,

  Little Fanny wears a hat

  "Margery Brown, on the top of the hill,

  Little wind, blow on the hill-top,

  Indeed, it is true, it is perfectly true;

  School is over,

  "Little Polly, will you go a-walking to-day?"

  I was walking up the street,

  Five little sisters walking in a row:

  In go-cart so tiny

  Some geese went out a-walking,

  You are going out to tea to-day,

  Poor Dicky's dead!--The bell we toll,

  Up you go, shuttlecocks, ever so high!

  Tommy was a silly boy,

  Higgledy, piggledy, see how they run!

  Which is the way to Somewhere Town?

  The boat sails away, like a bird on the wing,

  Pipe thee high, and pipe thee low,

  Polly's, Peg's, and Poppety's

  Bowl away! bowl away!

  "For what are you longing, you three little boys?

  O ring the bells! O ring the bells!

  Then ring the bells! then ring the bells!

  I saw a ship that sailed the sea,

  Yes, that's the girl that struts about,

  It was Tommy who said,

  "Shall I sing?" says the Lark,

  Little Miss Patty and Master Paul

  Yes, it is sad of them,

  Now, all of you, give heed unto

  What is Tommy running for,

  A butcher's boy met a baker's boy

  The twelve Miss Pelicoes

  Little baby, if I threw

  The finest, biggest fish, you see,

  Prince Finikin and his mamma

  Heigh ho!--time creeps but slow:

  My house is red--a little house,

  Three little girls were sitting on a rail,

  Ring the bells--ring!

UNDER THE WINDOW

  Under the window is my garden,
    Where sweet, sweet flowers grow;
  And in the pear-tree dwells a robin,
    The dearest bird I know.

  Tho' I peep out betimes in the morning,
    Still the flowers are up the first;
  Then I try and talk to the robin,
    And perhaps he'd chat--if he durst.

  Will you be my little wife,
    If I ask you? Do!
  I'll buy you such a Sunday frock,
    A nice umbrella, too.

  And you shall have a little hat,
    With such a long white feather,
  A pair of gloves, and sandal shoes,
    The softest kind of leather.

  And you shall have a tiny house,
    A beehive full of bees,
  A little cow, a largish cat,
    And green sage cheese.

  You see, merry Phillis, that dear little maid,
    Has invited Belinda to tea;
  Her nice little garden is shaded by trees--
    What pleasanter place could there be?

  There's a cake full of plums, there are strawberries too,
    And the table is set on the green;
  I'm fond of a carpet all daisies and grass--
    Could a prettier picture be seen?

  A blackbird (yes, blackbirds delight in warm weather,)
    Is flitting from yonder high spray;
  He sees the two little ones talking together--
    No wonder the blackbird is gay!

  Three tabbies took out their cats to tea,
  As well-behaved tabbies as well could be:
  Each sat in the chair that each preferred,
  They mewed for their milk, and they sipped and purred.
  Now tell me this (as these cats you've seen them)--
  How many lives had these cats between them?

  Little Fanny wears a hat
    Like her ancient Grannie;
  Tommy's hoop was (think of that!)
    Given him by Fanny.

  "Margery Brown, on the top of the hill,
  Why are you standing, idle still?"
  "Oh, I'm looking over to London town;
  Shall I see the horsemen if I go down?"

  "Margery Brown, on the top of the hill,
  Why are you standing, listening still?"
  "Oh, I hear the bells of London ring,
  And I hear the men and the maidens sing."

  "Margery Brown, on the top of the hill,
  Why are you standing, waiting still?"
  "Oh, a knight is there, but I can't go down,
  For the bells ring strangely in London town."

  Little wind, blow on the hill-top,
    Little wind, blow down the plain;
  Little wind, blow up the sunshine,
    Little wind, blow off the rain.

  Indeed it is true, it is perfectly true;
    Believe me, indeed, I am playing no tricks;
  An old man and his dog bide up there in the moon,
    And he's cross as a bundle of sticks.

  School is over,
    Oh, what fun!
  Lessons finished,
    Play begun.
  Who'll run fastest,
    You or I?
  Who'll laugh loudest?
    Let us try.

  "Little Polly, will you go a-walking to-day?"
  "Indeed, little Susan, I will, if I may."
  "Little Polly, your mother has said you may go;
  She was nice to say 'Yes;' she should never say 'No.'"

  "A rook has a nest on the top of the tree--
  A big ship is coming from over the sea:
  Now, which would be nicest, the ship or the nest?"
  "Why, that would be nicest that Polly likes best."

  As I was walking up the street,
    The steeple bells were ringing;
  As I sat down at Mary's feet,
    The sweet, sweet birds were singing.

  As I walked far into the world,
    I met a little fairy;
  She plucked this flower, and, as it's sweet,
    I've brought it home to Mary.

  Five little sisters walking in a row;
  Now, isn't that the best way for little girls to go?
  Each had a round hat, each had a muff,
  And each had a new pelisse of soft green stuff.

  Five little marigolds standing in a row;
  Now, isn't that the best way for marigolds to grow?
  Each with a green stalk, and all the five had got
  A bright yellow flower, and a new red pot.

  In go-cart so tiny
    My sister I drew;
  And I've promised to draw her
    The wide world through.

  We have not yet started--
    I own it with sorrow--
  Because our trip's always
    Put off till to-morrow.

  Some geese went out a-walking,
    To breakfast and to dine;
  They craned their necks, and plumed themselves--
    They numbered four from nine;
  With their cackle, cackle, cackle!
    They thought themselves so fine.

  A dame went walking by herself,
    A very ancient crone;
  She said, "I wish that all you geese
    Were starved to skin and bone!
  Do stop that cackle, cackle, now,
    And leave me here alone."

  You are going out to tea to-day,
    So mind how you behave;
  Let all accounts I have of you
    Be pleasant ones, I crave.

  Don't spill your tea, or gnaw your bread,
    And don't tease one another;
  And Tommy mustn't talk too much,
    Or quarrel with his brother.

  Say "If you please," and "Thank you, Nurse:"
    Come home at eight o'clock;
  And, Fanny, pray be careful that
    You do not tear your frock.

  Now, mind your manners, children five,
    Attend to what I say;
  And then, perhaps, I'll let you go
    Again another day.

  Poor Dicky's dead!--The bell we toll,
  And lay him in the deep, dark hole.
  The sun may shine, the clouds may rain,
  But Dick will never pipe again!
  His quilt will be as sweet as ours--
  Bright buttercups and cuckoo flowers.

  Up you go, shuttlecocks, ever so high!
  Why come you down again, shuttlecocks--why?
  When you have got so far, why do you fall?
  Where all are high, which is highest of all?

  Tommy was a silly boy,
    "I can fly," he said;
  He started off, but very soon,
    He tumbled on his head.

  His little sister Prue was there,
    To see how he would do it;
  She knew that, after all his boast,
    Full dearly Tom would rue it!

  Higgledy, piggledy! see how they run!
  Hopperty, popperty! what is the fun?
  Has the sun or the moon tumbled into the sea?
  What is the matter, now? Pray tell it me!

  Higgledy, piggledy! how can I tell?
  Hopperty, popperty! hark to the bell!
  The rats and the mice even scamper away;
  Who can say what may not happen to-day?

  Which is the way to Somewhere Town?
    Oh, up in the morning early;
  Over the tiles and the chimney-pots,
    That is the way, quite clearly.

  And which is the door to Somewhere Town?
    Oh, up in the morning early;
  The round red sun is the door to go through,
    That is the way, quite clearly.

  The boat sails away, like a bird on the wing,
  And the little boys dance on the sands in a ring.
  The wind may fall, or the wind may rise--
  You are foolish to go; you will stay if you're wise.
  The little boys dance, and the little girls run:
  If it's bad to have money, it's worse to have none.

  Pipe thee high, and pipe thee low,
    Let the little feet go faster;
  Blow your penny trumpet--blow!
    Well done, little master!

  Polly's, Peg's, and Poppety's
    Mamma was kind and good:
  She gave them each, one happy day,
    A little scarf and hood.

  A bonnet for each girl she bought,
    To shield them from the sun;
  They wore them in the snow and rain,
    And thought it mighty fun.

  But sometimes there were naughty boys,
    Who called to them at play,
  And made this rude remark--"My eye!
    Three Grannies out to-day!"

  Bowl away! bowl away!
    Fast as you can;
  He who can fastest bowl,
    He is my man!

  Up and down, round about,--
    Don't let it fall;
  Ten times, or twenty times,
    Beat, beat them all!

  "For what are you longing, you three little boys?
    Oh, what would you like to eat?"
  "We should like some apples, or gingerbread--
    Or a fine big drum to beat."

  "Oh, what will you give me, you three little boys,
    In exchange for these good, good things?"
  "Some bread and cheese, and some radishes,
    And our little brown bird that sings."

  "Now, that won't do, you three little chums,
    I'll have something better than that--
  Two of your fingers, and two of your thumbs,
    In the crown of your largest hat!"

  O ring the bells! O ring the bells!
    We bid you, sirs, good morning;
  Give thanks, we pray--our flowers are gay,
    And fair for your adorning.

  O ring the bells! O ring the bells!
    Good sirs, accept our greeting;
  Where we have been, the woods are green.
    So, hey! for our next meeting.

  Then ring the bells! then ring the bells!
    For this fair time of Maying;
  Our blooms we bring, and while we sing,
    O! hark to what we're saying.

  O ring the bells! O ring the bells!
    We'll sing a song with any;
  And may each year bring _you_ good cheer,
    And each of _us_ a penny.

  I saw a ship that sailed the sea,
    It left me as the sun went down;
  The white birds flew, and followed it
    To town--to London town.

  Right sad were we to stand alone,
    And see it pass so far away;
  And yet we knew some ship would come--
    Some other ship--some other day.

  Yes, that's the girl that struts about,
    She's very proud,--so very proud!
  Her _bow-wow's_ quite as proud as she:
  They both are very wrong to be
    So proud--so very proud.

  See, Jane and Willy laugh at her,
    They say she's very proud!
  Says Jane, "My stars!--they're very silly;"
  "Indeed they are," cries little Willy,
   "To walk so stiff and proud."

  It was Tommy who said,
    "The sweet spring-time is come;
  I see the birds flit,
    And I hear the bees hum.

  "Oho! Mister Lark,
     Up aloft in the sky,
  Now, which is the happiest--
    Is it you, sir, or I?"

  "Shall I sing?" says the Lark,
    "Shall I bloom?" says the Flower;
  "Shall I come?" says the Sun,
    "Or shall I?" says the Shower.

  Sing your song, pretty Bird,
    Roses, bloom for an hour;
  Shine on, dearest Sun,
    Go away, naughty Shower!

  Little Miss Patty and Master Paul
  Have found two snails on the garden wall.
  "These snails," said Paul, "how slow they walk!
  A great deal slower than we can talk.
  Make haste, Mr. Snail, travel quicker, I pray;
  In a race with our tongues you'd be beaten to-day."

  Yes, it is sad of them--
    Shocking to me;
  Bad--yes, it's bad of them--
    Bad of all three.

  Warnings they've had from me.
    Still I repeat them--
  Cold is the water--the
    Fishes will eat them.

  Yet they will row about,
    Tho' I say "Fie!" to them;
  Fathers may scold at it,
    Mothers may cry to them.

  Now, all of you, give heed unto
    The tale I now relate,
  About two girls and one small boy,
    A cat, and a green gate.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Alack! since I began to speak
    (And what I say is true),
  It's all gone out of my poor head--
    And so good-bye to you!

  What is Tommy running for,
      Running for,
      Running for?
  What is Tommy running for,
    On this fine day?

  Jimmy will run after Tommy,
      After Tommy,
      After Tommy;
  That's what Tommy's running for,
    On this fine day.

  A butcher's boy met a baker's boy
    (It was all of a summer day);
  Said the butcher's boy to the baker's boy,
    "Will you please to walk my way?"

  Said the butcher's boy to the baker's boy,
    "My trade's the best in town,"
  "If you dare say that," said the baker's boy,
    "I shall have to knock you down!"

  Said the butcher's boy to the baker's boy,
    "That's a wicked thing to do;
  And I think, before you've knocked me down,
    The cook will blow up you!"

  The twelve Miss Pelicoes
    Were twelve sweet little girls;
  Some wore their hair in pigtail plaits,
    And some of them wore curls.

  The twelve Miss Pelicoes
    Had dinner every day;--
  A not uncommon thing at all,
    You probably will say.

  The twelve Miss Pelicoes
    Went sometimes for a walk;
  It also is a well-known fact
    That all of them could talk.

  The twelve Miss Pelicoes,
    Of course, to school were sent;
  Their parents wished them to excel
    In each accomplishment.

  The twelve Miss Pelicoes
    Played music--_Fal-lal-la!_
  Which consequently made them all
    The pride of their papa.

  The twelve Miss Pelicoes
    Learnt dancing and the globes;
  Which proves that they were wise, and had
    That patience which was Job's.

  The twelve Miss Pelicoes
    Were always most polite--
  Said "If you please," and "Many thanks,"
    "Good morning," and "Good night."

  The twelve Miss Pelicoes
    You plainly see, were taught
  To do the things they didn't like,
    Which means, the things they ought.

  Now, fare ye well, Miss Pelicoes,
    I wish ye a good day;--
  About these twelve Miss Pelicoes
    I've nothing more to say.

  Little baby, if I threw
  This fair blossom down to you,
  Would you catch it as you stand,
  Holding up each tiny hand,
  Looking out of those grey eyes,
  Where such deep, deep wonder lies?

  The finest, biggest fish, you see,
  Will be the trout that's caught by me,
  But if the monster will not bite,
  Why, then I'll hook a little mite.

  Prince Finikin and his mamma
    Sat sipping their bohea;
  "Good gracious!" said his Highness, "why,
    What girl is this I see?

  "Most certainly it cannot be
    A native of our town;"
  And he turned him round to his mamma,
    Who set her teacup down.

  But Dolly simply looked at them,
    She did not speak a word;
  "She has no voice!" said Finikin;
    "It's really quite absurd."

  Then Finikin's mamma observed,
    "Dear Prince, it seems to me,
  She looks as if she'd like to drink
    A cup of my bohea."

  So Finikin poured out her tea,
    And gave her currant-pie;
  Then Finikin said, "Dear mamma,
    What a kind Prince am I!"

  Heigh ho!--time creeps but slow;
    I've looked up the hill so long;
  None come this way, the sun sinks low,
    And my shadow's very long.

  They said I should sail in a little boat,
    Up the stream, by the great white mill;
  But I've waited all day, and none come my way;
    I've waited--I'm waiting still.

  They said I should see a fairy town,
    With houses all of gold,
  And silver people, and a gold church steeple;--
    But it wasn't the truth they told.

  My house is red--a little house,
    A happy child am I,
  I laugh and play the livelong day
    I hardly ever cry.

  I have a tree, a green, green tree,
    To shade me from the sun;
  And under it I often sit,
    When all my work is done.

  My little basket I will take,
    And trip into the town;
  When next I'm there I'll buy some cake,
    And spend my bright half-crown.

  Three little girls were sitting on a rail,
      Sitting on a rail,
      Sitting on a rail;
  Three little girls were sitting on a rail,
    On a fine hot day in September.

  What did they talk about that fine day,
      That fine day,
      That fine day?
  What did they talk about that fine day,--
    That fine hot day in September?

  The crows and the corn they talked about,
      Talked about,
      Talked about;
  But nobody knows what was said by the crows,
    On that fine hot day in September.

      Ring the bells--ring!
      Hip, hurrah for the King!
  The dunce fell into the pool, oh!
  The dunce was going to school, oh!
      The groom and the cook
      Fished him out with a hook,
  And he piped his eye like a fool, oh!

 ENGRAVED AND PRINTED BY EDMUND EVANS, LTD.,
 ROSE PLACE, GLOBE ROAD, LONDON, E.1.

    The horns of Elfland faintly blowing!
Blow, let us hear the purple glens replying:
Blow, bugle; answer, echoes, dying, dying, dying.

  O love, they die in yon rich sky,
    They faint on hill or field or river:
  Our echoes roll from soul to soul,
    And grow for ever and for ever.
Blow bugle, blow, set the wild echoes flying,
And answer, echoes, answer, dying, dying, dying.

    _Alfred, Lord Tennyson._

A Child's Thought of God

They say that God lives very high;
  But if you look above the pines
You cannot see our God; and why?

And if you dig down in the mines,
  You never see him in the gold,
Though from Him all that's glory shines.

God is so good, He wears a fold
  Of heaven and earth across His face,
Like secrets kept for love untold.

But still I feel that His embrace
  Slides down by thrills through all things made,
Through sight and sound of every place;

As if my tender mother laid
  On my shut lips her kisses' pressure,
Half waking me at night, and said,
  "Who kissed you through the dark, dear guesser?"

    _Elizabeth Barrett Browning._

The Blue and The Gray

By the flow of the inland river,
  Where the fleets of iron have fled,
Where the blades of grave grass quiver,
  Asleep are the ranks of the dead;
    Under the sod and the dew,
      Waiting the judgment day--
    Under the one, the Blue;
      Under the other, the Gray.

These in the robings of glory,
  Those in the gloom of defeat,
All, with the battle blood gory,
  In the dusk of eternity meet;
    Under the sod and the dew,--
      Waiting the judgment day--
    Under the laurel, the Blue;
      Under the willow, the Gray.

From the silence of sorrowful hours
  The desolate mourners go,
Lovingly laden with flowers
  Alike for the friend and the foe;
    Under the sod and the dew,
      Waiting the judgment day--
    Under the roses, the Blue;
      Under the lilies, the Gray.

So with an equal splendor
  The morning sun-rays fall,
With a touch impartially tender,
  On the blossoms blooming for all;
    Under the sod and the dew,
      Waiting the judgment day--
    'Broidered with gold, the Blue;
      Mellowed with gold, the Gray.

So, when the summer calleth,
  On forest and field of grain
With an equal murmur falleth
  The cooling drip of the rain;
    Under the sod and the dew,
      Waiting the judgment day--
    Wet with the rain, the Blue;
      Wet with the rain, the Gray.

Sadly, but not with upbraiding,
  The generous deed was done;
In the storm of the years that are fading.
  No braver battle was won;
    Under the sod and the dew,
      Waiting the judgment day--
    Under the blossoms, the Blue;
      Under the garlands, the Gray.

No more shall the war-cry sever,
  Or the winding rivers be red;
They banish our anger forever
  When they laurel the graves of our dead!
    Under the sod and the dew,
      Waiting the judgment day--
    Love and tears for the Blue;
      Tears and love for the Gray.

    _Francis Miles Finch._

Good Night and Good Morning

A fair little girl sat under a tree,
Sewing as long as her eyes could see,
Then smoothed her work, and folded it right,
And said, "Dear work, good night, good night!"

Such a number of rooks came over her head,
Crying "Caw, caw," on their way to bed;
She said, as she watched their curious flight,
"Little black things, good night, good night!"

The horses neighed, and the oxen lowed,
The sheep's "bleat, bleat" came over the road,
And all seemed to say, with a quiet delight,
"Good little girl, good night, good night!"

She did not say to the sun "Good night,"
Tho' she saw him there like a ball of light;
For she knew he had God's own time to keep
All over the world, and never could sleep.

The tall pink foxglove bowed his head,
The violets curtseyed and went to bed;
And good little Lucy tied up her hair,
And said, on her knees, her favorite prayer.

And, while on her pillow she softly lay,
She knew nothing more till again it was day;
And all things said to the beautiful sun,
"Good morning, good morning, our work is begun!"

    _Lord Houghton._

Lady Moon

"Lady Moon, Lady Moon, where are you roving?"
    "Over the sea."
"Lady Moon, Lady Moon, whom are you loving?"
    "All that love me."

"Are you not tired with rolling and never
    Resting to sleep?
Why look so pale and so sad, as for ever
    Wishing to weep?"

"Ask me not this, little child, if you love me;
    You are too bold
I must obey my dear Father above me,
    And do as I'm told."

"Lady Moon, Lady Moon, where are you roving?"
    "Over the sea."
"Lady Moon, Lady Moon, whom are you loving?"
    "All that love me."

    _Lord Houghton._

Breathes There the Man With Soul So Dead?

_(From "The Lay of the Last Minstrel")_

Breathes there the man with soul so dead
Who never to himself hath said,
  This is my own, my native land?
Whose heart hath ne'er within him burned,
As home his footsteps he hath turned
  From wandering on a foreign strand?
If such there breathe, go, mark him well;
For him no minstrel raptures swell;
High though his titles, proud his name,
Boundless his wealth as wish can claim,--
Despite those titles, power, and pelf,
The wretch, concentred all in self,
Living, shall forfeit fair renown,
And, doubly dying, shall go down
To the vile dust from whence he sprung,
Unwept, unhonored and unsung.

    _Sir Walter Scott._

Pippa's Song

The year's at the spring,
And day's at the morn;
Morning's at seven;
The hillside's dew-pearled;
The lark's on the wing;
The snail's on the thorn;
God's in His heaven--
All's right with the world!

    _Robert Browning._

Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star

Twinkle, twinkle, little star;
How I wonder what you are!
Up above the world so high,
Like a diamond in the sky.

When the glorious sun is set,
When the grass with dew is wet,
Then you show your little light,
Twinkle, twinkle, all the night.

In the dark blue sky you keep,
And often through my curtains peep;
For you never shut your eye
Till the sun is in the sky.

As your bright and tiny spark
Lights the traveler in the dark,
Though I know not what you are,
Twinkle, twinkle, little star.

    _Jane Taylor._

Crossing the Bar

Sunset and evening star,
  And one clear call for me!
And may there be no moaning of the bar,
  When I put out to sea,

But such a tide as moving seems asleep,
  Too full for sound and foam,
When that which drew from out the boundless deep
  Turns again home.

Twilight and evening bell,
  And after that the dark!
And may there be no sadness of farewell,
  When I embark;

For tho' from out our bourne of Time and Place
  The flood may bear me far,
I hope to see my Pilot face to face
  When I have crost the bar.

    _Alfred, Lord Tennyson._

The Tree

The Tree's early leaf buds were bursting their brown;
"Shall I take them away?" said the Frost, sweeping down.
  "No, leave them alone
  Till the blossoms have grown,"
Prayed the Tree, while he trembled from rootlet to crown.

The Tree bore his blossoms, and all the birds sung:
"Shall I take them away?" said the Wind, as he swung,
  "No, leave them alone
  Till the blossoms have grown,"
Said the Tree, while his leaflets quivering hung.

The Tree bore his fruit in the midsummer glow:
Said the child, "May I gather thy berries now?"
  "Yes, all thou canst see:
  Take them; all are for thee,"
Said the Tree, while he bent down his laden boughs low.

    _Bjorrstjerne Bjornson._

The Fountain

Into the sunshine,
  Full of the light,
Leaping and flashing
  From morn till night;

Into the moonlight,
  Whiter than snow,
Waving so flower-like
  When the winds blow;

Into the starlight
  Rushing in spray,
Happy at midnight,
  Happy by day;

Ever in motion,
  Blithesome and cheery,
Still climbing heavenward,
  Never aweary;

Glad of all weathers,
  Still seeming best,
Upward or downward,
  Motion thy rest;

Full of a nature
  Nothing can tame,
Changed every moment,
  Ever the same;

Ceaseless aspiring,
  Ceaseless content,
Darkness or sunshine
  Thy element;

Glorious fountain,
  Let my heart be
Fresh, changeful, constant,
  Upward, like thee!

    _James Russell Lowell._

The Leak in the Dike

The good dame looked from her cottage
  At the close of the pleasant day,
And cheerily called to her little son,
  Outside the door at play:
"Come, Peter, come! I want you to go,
  While there is light to see.
To the hut of the blind old man who lives
  Across the dike, for me;
And take these cakes I made for him--
  They are hot and smoking yet;
You have time enough to go and come
  Before the sun is set."

Then the good-wife turned to her labor,
  Humming a simple song,
And thought of her husband, working hard
  At the sluices all day long;
And set the turf a-blazing,
  And brought the coarse black bread,
That he might find a fire at night
  And find the table spread.

And Peter left the brother
  With whom all day he had played,
And the sister who had watched their sports
  In the willow's tender shade;
And told them they'd see him back before
  They saw a star in sight,
Though he wouldn't be afraid to go
  In the very darkest night!
For he was a brave, bright fellow,
  With eye and conscience clear;
He could do whatever a boy might do,
  And he had not learned to fear.
Why, he wouldn't have robbed a bird's nest,
  Nor brought a stork to harm,
Though never a law in Holland
  Had stood to stay his arm!

And now with his face all glowing,
  And eyes as bright as the day
With the thoughts of his pleasant errand,
  He trudged along the way;
And soon his joyous prattle
  Made glad a lonesome place--
Alas! if only the blind old man,
  Could have seen that happy face!
Yet he somehow caught the brightness
  Which his voice and presence lent;
And he felt the sunshine come and go
  As Peter came and went.

And now, as the day was sinking,
  And the winds began to rise,
The mother looked from her door again,
  Shading her anxious eyes,
And saw the shadows deepen
  And birds to their homes come back,
But never a sign of Peter
  Along the level track.
But she said, "He will come at morning,
So I need not fret nor grieve--
Though it isn't like my boy at all
  To stay without my leave."

But where was the child delaying?
  On the homeward way was he,
Across the dike while the sun was up
  An hour above the sea.
He was stopping now to gather flowers,
  Now listening to the sound,
As the angry waters dashed themselves
  Against their narrow bound.
"Ah! well for us," said Peter,
  "That the gates are good and strong,
And my father tends them carefully,
  Or they would not hold you long!
You're a wicked sea," said Peter,"
  "I know why you fret and chafe;
You would like to spoil our lands and homes,
  But our sluices keep you safe!

But hark! Through the noise of waters
  Comes a low, clear, trickling sound;
And the child's face pales with terror,
  And his blossoms drop to the ground,
He is up the bank in a moment,
  And, stealing through the sand,
He sees a stream not yet so large
  As his slender, childish hand.
'Tis a leak in the dike! He is but a boy,
  Unused to fearful scenes;
But, young as he is, he has learned to know
  The dreadful thing that means.
A leak in the dike! The stoutest heart
  Grows faint that cry to hear,
And the bravest man in all the land
  Turns white with mortal fear;
For he knows the smallest leak may grow
  To a flood in a single night;
And he knows the strength of the cruel sea
  When loosed in its angry might.

And the boy! He has seen the danger
  And shouting a wild alarm,
He forces back the weight of the sea
  With the strength of his single arm!
He listens for the joyful sound
  Of a footstep passing nigh;
And lays his ear to the ground, to catch
  The answer to his cry.
And he hears the rough winds blowing,
  And the waters rise and fall,
But never an answer comes to him
  Save the echo of his call.

He sees no hope, no succor,
  His feeble voice is lost;
Yet what shall he do but watch and wait,
  Though he perish at his post!
So, faintly calling and crying
  Till the sun is under the sea;
Crying and moaning till the stars
  Come out for company;
He thinks of his brother and sister,
  Asleep in their safe warm bed;
He thinks of his father and mother,
  Of himself as dying--and dead;
And of how, when the night is over,
  They must come and find him at last;
But he never thinks he can leave the place
  Where duty holds him fast.

The good dame in the cottage
  Is up and astir with the light,
For the thought of her little Peter
  Has been with her all night.
And now she watches the pathway,
  As yester eve she had done;
But what does she see so strange and black
  Against the rising sun?
Her neighbors are bearing between them
  Something straight to her door;
Her child is coming home, but not
  As he ever came before!

"He is dead!" she cries, "my darling!"
  And the startled father hears.
And comes and looks the way she looks,
  And fears the thing she fears;
Till a glad shout from the bearers
  Thrills the stricken man and wife--
"Give thanks, for your son, has saved our land,
  And God has saved his life!"
So, there in the morning sunshine
  They knelt about the boy;
And every head was bared and bent
  In tearful, reverent joy.

'Tis many a year since then, but still,
  When the sea roars like a flood,
Their boys are taught what a boy can do
  Who is brave and true and good;
For every man in that country
  Takes his son by the hand,
And tells him of little Peter
  Whose courage saved the land.
They have many a valiant hero
  Remembered through the years;
But never one whose name so oft
  Is named with loving tears;
And his deed shall be sung by the cradle,
  And told to the child on the knee,
So long as the dikes of Holland
  Divide the land from the sea!

    _Phoebe Cary._

Robert of Lincoln

Merrily swinging on briar and weed,
  Near to the nest of his little dame,
Over the mountain-side or mead,
  Robert of Lincoln is telling his name:
      Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
      Spink, spank, spink;
Snug and safe is that nest of ours,
Hidden among the summer flowers.
                  Chee, chee, chee.

Robert of Lincoln is gaily drest,
  Wearing a bright black wedding coat;
White are his shoulders and white his crest,
  Hear him call in his merry note:
      Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
      Spink, spank, spink;
Look, what a nice new coat is mine,
Sure there was never a bird so fine.
                  Chee, chee, chee.

Robert of Lincoln's Quaker wife,
  Pretty and quiet, with plain brown wings,
Passing at home a patient life,
  Broods in the grass while her husband sings:
      Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
      Spink, spank, spink;
Brood, kind creature; you need not fear
Thieves and robbers while I am here.
                  Chee, chee, chee.

Modest and shy as a nun is she;
  One weak chirp is her only note.
Braggart and prince of braggarts is he,
  Pouring boasts from his little throat:
      Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
      Spink, spank, spink;
Never was I afraid of man;
Catch me, cowardly knaves, if you can.
                  Chee, chee, chee.

Six white eggs on a bed of hay,
  Flecked with purple, a pretty sight!
There as the mother sits all day,
  Robert is singing with all his might:
      Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
      Spink, spank, spink;
Nice, good wife, that never goes out,
Keeping the house while I frolic about.
                  Chee, chee, chee.

Soon as the little ones chip the shell
  Six wide mouths are open for food;
Robert of Lincoln bestirs him well,
  Gathering seeds for the hungry brood.
      Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
      Spink, spank, spink;
This new life is likely to be
Hard for a gay young fellow like me.
                  Chee, chee, chee.

Robert of Lincoln at length is made
  Sober with work, and silent with care;
Off is his holiday garment laid,
  Half forgotten that merry air,
    Bob-o'-link, Bob-o'-link,
    Spink, spank, spink;
Nobody knows but my mate and I
Where our nest and our nestlings lie.
         Chee, chee, chee.

Summer wanes; the children are grown;
  Fun and frolic no more he knows;
Robert of Lincoln's a humdrum crone;
  Off he flies, and we sing as he goes:
    Bob-o'-link, bob-o'-link,
    Spink, spank, spink;
When you can pipe that merry old strain,
Robert of Lincoln, come back again.
          Chee, chee, chee,

    _William Cullen Bryant._

Wishing

Ring-Ting! I wish I were a Primrose,
A bright yellow Primrose, blowing in the spring!
  The stooping boughs above me,
  The wandering bee to love me,
  The fern and moss to creep across,
  And the Elm tree for our king!

Nay--stay! I wish I were an Elm tree,
A great, lofty Elm tree, with green leaves gay!
  The winds would set them dancing,
  The sun and moonshine glance in,
  The birds would house among the boughs,
  And sweetly sing.

Oh no! I wish I were a Robin,
A Robin or a little Wren, everywhere to go;
  Through forest, field, or garden,
  And ask no leave or pardon,
  Till winter comes with icy thumbs
  To ruffle up our wing!

Well--tell! Where should I fly to,
Where go to sleep in the dark wood or dell?
  Before a day was over,
  Home comes the rover.
  For mother's kiss--sweeter this
  Than any other thing.

    _William Allingham._

The Burial of Sir John Moore at Corunna

Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note,
  As his corse to the rampart we hurried;
Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot
  O'er the grave where our hero we buried.

We buried him darkly at dead of night,
  The sods with our bayonets turning;
By struggling moonbeam's misty light,
  And the lantern dimly burning.

No useless coffin enclosed his breast,
  Nor in sheet nor in shroud we wound him;
But he lay like a warrior taking his rest,
  With his martial cloak around him.

Few and short were the prayers we said,
  And we spoke not a word of sorrow;
But we steadfastly gazed on the face of the dead,
  And we bitterly thought of the morrow.

We thought, as we hollowed his narrow bed,
  And smoothed down his lonely pillow,
That the foe and the stranger would tread o'er his head;
  And we far away on the billow!

Lightly they'll talk of the spirit that's gone,
  And o'er his cold ashes upbraid him;
But little he'll reck; if they let him sleep on
  In the grave where a Briton has laid him.

But half of our heavy task was done,
  When the clock tolled the hour for retiring;
And we heard the distant and random gun
  That the foe was sullenly firing.

Slowly and sadly we laid him down.
  From the field of his fame fresh and gory;
We carved not a line, and we raised not a stone,
  But we left him alone with his glory!

    _Charles Wolfe._

How Many Seconds in a Minute?

How many seconds in a minute?
Sixty, and no more in it.

How many minutes in an hour?
Sixty for sun and shower.

How many hours in a day?
Twenty-four for work and play.

How many days in a week?
Seven both to hear and speak.

How many weeks in a month?
Four, as the swift moon runn'th.

How many months in a year?
Twelve, the almanack makes clear.

How many years in an age?
One hundred, says the sage.

How many ages in time?
No one knows the rhyme.

    _Christina G. Rossetti._

To-day

Here hath been dawning another blue day:
Think, wilt thou let it slip useless away?
Out of Eternity this new day was born;
Into Eternity, at night, will return.
Behold it aforetime no eye ever did;
So soon it forever from all eyes is hid.
Here hath been dawning another blue day:
Think, wilt thou let it slip useless away?

    _Thomas Carlyle._

The Wind and the Moon

Said the Wind to the Moon, "I will blow you out.
        You stare
        In the air
    Like a ghost in a chair,
Always looking what I am about;
I hate to be watched--I will blow you out."

The Wind blew hard, and out went the Moon.
        So deep,
        On a heap
    Of clouds, to sleep,
Down lay the Wind, and slumbered soon--
Muttering low, "I've done for that Moon."

He turned in his bed; she was there again!
        On high
        In the sky
    With her one clear eye,
The Moon shone white and alive and plain.
Said the Wind--"I will blow you out again."

The Wind blew hard, and the Moon grew dim.
        "With my sledge
        And my wedge
    I have knocked off her edge!
If only I blow right fierce and grim,
The creature will soon be dimmer than dim."

He blew and blew, and she thinned to a thread.
        "One puff
        More's enough
    To blow her to snuff!
One good puff more where the last was bred,
And glimmer, glimmer, glum will go the thread!"

He blew a great blast, and the thread was gone;
        In the air
        Nowhere
    Was a moonbeam bare;
Far off and harmless the shy stars shone;
Sure and certain the Moon was gone.

The Wind, he took to his revels once more;
        On down
        In town,
    Like a merry-mad clown,
He leaped and halloed with whistle and roar,
"What's that?" The glimmering thread once more!

He flew in a rage--he danced and blew;
        But in vain
        Was the pain
    Of his bursting brain;
For still the broader the Moon-scrap grew,
The broader he swelled his big cheeks and blew.

Slowly she grew--till she filled the night,
        And shone
        On her throne
    In the sky alone,
A matchless, wonderful, silvery light,
Radiant and lovely, the Queen of the Night.

Said the Wind--"What a marvel of power am I!
        With my breath,
        Good faith!
    I blew her to death--
First blew her away right out of the sky--
Then blew her in; what a strength have I!"

But the Moon, she knew nothing about the affair,
        For, high
        In the sky,
    With her one white eye
Motionless, miles above the air,
She had never heard the great Wind blare.

    _George Macdonald._

The Little Plant

In the heart of a seed,
  Buried deep, so deep,
A dear little plant
  Lay fast asleep!

"Wake!" said the sunshine,
  "And creep to the light!"
"Wake!" said the voice
  Of the raindrop bright.

The little plant heard
  And it rose to see
What the wonderful
  Outside world might be.

    _Kate L. Brown._

Paul Revere's Ride

Listen, my children, and you shall hear
Of the midnight ride of Paul Revere,
On the eighteenth of April, in Seventy-five;
Hardly a man is now alive
Who remembers that famous day and year.

He said to his friend, "If the British march
  By land or sea from the town tonight,
Hang a lantern aloft in the belfry arch
  Of the North Church tower, as a signal light,--
One, if by land, and two, if by sea;
And I on the opposite shore will be,
Ready to ride and spread the alarm
Through every Middlesex village and farm,
For the country folk to be up and to arm."

Then he said, "Good-night"; and with muffled oar
Silently rowed to the Charlestown shore,
Just as the moon rose over the bay,
Where, swinging wide at her moorings, lay
The Somerset, British man-of-war,
A phantom ship, with each mast and spar
Across the moon like a prison bar,
And a huge black hulk, that was magnified
By its own reflection in the tide.

Meanwhile, his friend through alley and street
  Wanders and watches with eager ears,
  Till, in the silence around him, he hears
    The muster of men at the barrack door,
The sound of arms, and the tramp of feet,
  And the measured tread of the grenadiers
    Marching down to their boats on the shore.

Then he climbed to the tower of the old North Church,
  By the wooden stairs, with stealthy tread,
  To the belfry chamber overhead,
And startled the pigeons from their perch
On the sombre rafters, that round him made
Masses and moving shapes of shade;
By the trembling ladder, steep and tall,
To the highest window in the wall,
  Where he paused to listen, and look down
  A moment on the roofs of the town,
And the moonlight flowing over all.

Beneath, in the churchyard, lay the dead
  In their night encampment on the hill,
  Wrapped in silence so deep and still
That he could hear, like a sentinel's tread,
The watchful night wind, as it went,
Creeping along from tent to tent,
  And seeming to whisper, "All is well!"
  A moment only he feels the spell
Of the place and hour, and the secret dread
Of the lonely belfry and the dead,
For suddenly all his thoughts are bent
On a shadowy something far away,
Where the river widens to meet the bay,
A line of black, that bends and floats
On the rising tide, like a bridge of boats.

Meanwhile, impatient to mount and ride,
Booted and spurred, with a heavy stride
  On the opposite shore walked Paul Revere.
Now he patted his horse's side,
  Now gazed on the landscape far and near,
Then impetuous stamped the earth,
And turned and tightened his saddle girth;
But mostly he watched with eager search
The belfry tower of the old North Church,
As it rose above the graves on the hill,
Lonely and spectral, and sombre and still.
And lo! as he looks, on the belfry's height
A glimmer, and then a gleam of light!
  He springs to the saddle, the bridle he turns,
But lingers and gazes, till full on his sight
  A second lamp in the belfry burns.

A harry of hoofs in a village street,
  A shape in the moonlight, a bulk in the dark,
  And beneath from the pebbles, in passing, a spark
Struck out by a steed flying fearless and fleet;
  That was all! And yet, through the gloom and the light,
  The fate of a nation was riding that night;
  And the spark struck out by that steed, in his flight,
Kindled the land into flame with its heat.
He has left the village and mounted the steep,
And beneath him, tranquil and broad and deep,
  Is the Mystic, meeting the ocean tides;
And under the alders, that skirt its edge,
Now soft on the sand, now loud on the ledge,
  Is heard the tramp of his steed as he rides.

It was twelve by the village clock
  When he crossed the bridge into Medford town.
He heard the crowing of the cock,
And the barking of the farmer's dog,
And felt the damp of the river fog,
  That rises after the sun goes down.

It was one by the village clock
When he galloped into Lexington,
He saw the gilded weathercock
Swim in the moonlight as he passed,
  And the meeting house windows, blank and bare,
  Gaze at him with a spectral glare
As if they already stood aghast
  At the bloody work they would look upon.

It was two by the village clock
  When he came to the bridge in Concord town.
He heard the bleating of the flock,
And the twittering of birds among the trees,
And felt the breath of the morning breeze
  Blowing over the meadows brown.
And one was safe and asleep in his bed
  Who at the bridge would be first to fall,
Who that day would be lying dead,
  Pierced by a British musket ball.

You know the rest. In the books you have read
How the British regulars fired and fled--
How the farmers gave them ball for ball,
From behind each fence and farmyard wall,
Chasing the red coats down the lane,
Then crossing the fields to emerge again
Under the trees at the turn of the road,
And only pausing to fire and load.

So through the night rode Paul Revere;
  And so through the night went his cry of alarm
To every Middlesex village and farm--
A cry of defiance, and not of fear--
A voice in the darkness, a knock at the door,
And a word that shall echo forever-more;
For borne on the night wind of the past,
Through all our history to the last,
In the hour of darkness and peril and need,
  The people will waken and listen to hear
The hurrying hoof beats of that steed,
  And the midnight message of Paul Revere.

    _Henry W. Longfellow._

In Flanders Fields

In Flanders fields the poppies grow
Between the crosses, row on row,
That mark our place; and in the sky
The larks, still bravely singing, fly,
Scarce heard amid the guns below.

We are the dead. Short days ago
We lived, felt dawn, saw sunset glow,
Loved and were loved; and now we lie
    In Flanders fields.

Take up our quarrel with the foe!
To you, from failing hands, we throw
The torch. Be yours to hold it high!
If ye break faith with us who die,
We shall not sleep, though poppies blow
    In Flanders fields.

_John McCrae._

In Flanders Fields: An Answer

In Flanders fields the cannon boom
And fitful flashes light the gloom,
While up above, like eagles, fly
The fierce destroyers of the sky;
With stains the earth wherein you lie
Is redder than the poppy bloom,
    In Flanders fields.

Sleep on, ye brave. The shrieking shell,
The quaking trench, the startled yell,
The fury of the battle hell
Shall wake you not; for all is well.
Sleep peacefully; for all is well.

Your flaming torch aloft we bear,
With burning heart an oath we swear
To keep the faith, to fight it through,
To crush the foe, or sleep with you
    In Flanders fields.

_C.B. Galbreath._

Little Boy Blue

The little toy dog is covered with dust,
  But sturdy and stanch he stands;
And the little toy soldier is red with rust,
  And his musket moulds in his hands.
Time was when the little toy dog was new
  And the soldier was passing fair,
And that was the time when our Little Boy Blue
  Kissed them and put them there.

"Now, don't you go till I come," he said,
  "And don't you make any noise!"
So toddling off to his trundle-bed
  He dreamt of the pretty toys.
And as he was dreaming, an angel song
  Awakened our Little Boy Blue,--
Oh, the years are many, the years are long,
  But the little toy friends are true.

Ay, faithful to Little Boy Blue they stand,
  Each in the same old place,
Awaiting the touch of a little hand,
  The smile of a little face.
And they wonder, as waiting these long years through,
  In the dust of that little chair,
What has become of our little Boy Blue
  Since he kissed them and put them there.

    _Eugene Field._

Thanatopsis

To him who in the love of Nature holds
Communion with her visible forms, she speaks
A various language; for his gayer hours
She has a voice of gladness, and a smile
And eloquence of beauty, and she glides
Into his darker musings with a mild
And healing sympathy, that steals away
Their sharpness, ere he is aware. When thoughts
Of the last bitter hoar come like a blight
Over thy spirit, and sad images
Of the stern agony, and shroud, and pall,
And breathless darkness, and the narrow house,
Make thee to shudder, and grow sick at heart;--
Go forth, under the open sky, and list
To Nature's teachings, while from all around--
Earth and her waters, and the depths of air,--
Comes a still voice--Yet a few days, and thee
The all-beholding sun shall see no more
In all his course; nor yet in the cold ground,
Where thy pale form was laid with many tears.
Nor in the embrace of ocean, shall exist
Thy image. Earth, that nourished thee, shall claim
Thy growth, to be resolved to earth again,
And, lost each human trace, surrendering up
Thine individual being, shalt thou go
To mix forever with the elements,
To be a brother to the insensible rock
And to the sluggish clod, which the rude swain
Turns with his share, and treads upon. The oak
Shall send his roots abroad, and pierce thy mould.
Yet not to thine eternal resting-place
Shalt thou retire alone--nor couldst thou wish
Couch more magnificent. Thou shalt lie down
With patriarchs of the infant world--with kings.
The powerful of the earth--the wise, the good,
Fair forms, and hoary seers of ages past,
All in one mighty sepulchre. The hills,
Rock-ribbed, and ancient as the sun,--the vales
Stretching in pensive quietness between;
The venerable woods--rivers that move
In majesty, and the complaining brooks
That make the meadows green; and, poured round all,
Old ocean's gray and melancholy waste,--
Are but the solemn decorations all
Of the great tomb of man. The golden sun,
The planets, all the infinite host of heaven,
Are shining on the sad abodes of death,
Through the still lapse of ages. All that tread
The globe are but a handful to the tribes
That slumber in its bosom. Take the wings
Of morning, pierce the Barcan wilderness,
Or lose thyself in the continuous woods
Where rolls the Oregon, and hears no sound,
Save his own dashings--yet, the dead are there;
And millions in those solitudes, since first
The flight of years began, have laid them down
In their last sleep--the dead reign there alone.
So shalt thou rest, and what if thou withdraw
In silence from the living, and no friend
Take note of thy departure? All that breathe
Will share thy destiny. The gay will laugh
When thou art gone, the solemn brood of care
Plod on, and each one as before will chase
His favorite phantom; yet all these shall leave
Their mirth and their employments, and shall come
And make their bed with thee. As the long train
Of ages glide away, the sons of men,--
The youth in life's green spring, and he who goes
In the full strength of years, matron, and maid,
And the sweet babe, and the gray-headed man,--
Shall one by one be gathered to thy side,
By those who in their turn shall follow them.

So live, that when thy summons comes to join
The innumerable caravan which moves
To the pale realms of shade, where each shall take
His chamber in the silent halls of death,
Thou go not, like the quarry-slave at night,
Scourged to his dungeon, but, sustained and soothed
By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.

    _William Cullen Bryant._

The First Settler's Story

It ain't the funniest thing a man can do--
Existing in a country when it's new;
Nature, who moved in first--a good long while--
Has things already somewhat her own style,
And she don't want her woodland splendors battered,
Her rustic furniture broke up and scattered,
Her paintings, which long years ago were done
By that old splendid artist-king, the sun,
Torn down and dragged in civilization's gutter,
Or sold to purchase settlers' bread and butter.
She don't want things exposed from porch to closet,
And so she kind o' nags the man who does it.
She carries in her pockets bags of seeds,
As general agent of the thriftiest weeds;
She sends her blackbirds, in the early morn,
To superintend his fields of planted corn;
She gives him rain past any duck's desire--
Then maybe several weeks of quiet fire;
She sails mosquitoes--leeches perched on wings--
To poison him with blood-devouring stings;
She loves her ague-muscle to display,
And shake him up--say every other day;
With, thoughtful, conscientious care she makes
Those travelin' poison-bottles, rattlesnakes;
She finds time, 'mongst her other family cares,
To keep in stock good wild-cats, wolves, and bears.

Well, when I first infested this retreat,
Things to my view looked frightful incomplete;
But I had come with heart-thrift in my song,
And brought my wife and plunder right along;
I hadn't a round trip ticket to go back,
And if I had there wasn't no railroad track;
And drivin' East was what I couldn't endure:
I hadn't started on a circular tour.

My girl-wife was as brave as she was good,
And helped me every blessed way she could;
She seemed to take to every rough old tree,
As sing'lar as when first she took to me.
She kep' our little log-house neat as wax,
And once I caught her fooling with my axe.
She learned a hundred masculine things to do:
She aimed a shot-gun pretty middlin' true,
Although in spite of my express desire,
She always shut her eyes before she'd fire.
She hadn't the muscle (though she _had_ the heart)
In out-door work to take an active part;
Though in our firm of Duty and Endeavor
She wasn't no silent partner whatsoever.
When I was logging, burning, choppin' wood,
She'd linger round and help me all she could,
And keep me fresh-ambitious all the while,
And lifted tons just with her voice and smile.
With no desire my glory for to rob,
She used to stan' around and boss the job;
And when first-class success my hands befell,
Would proudly say, "_We_ did that pretty well!"
She _was_ delicious, both to hear and see--
That pretty wife-girl that kep' house for me.

Well, neighborhoods meant counties in those days;
The roads didn't have accommodating ways;
And maybe weeks would pass before she'd see--
And much less talk with--any one but me.
The Indians sometimes showed their sun-baked faces,
But they didn't teem with conversational graces;
Some ideas from the birds and trees she stole,
But 'twasn't like talking with a human soul;
And finally I thought that I could trace
A half heart-hunger peering from her face.
Then she would drive it back and shut the door;
Of course that only made me see it more.
'Twas hard to see her give her life to mine,
Making a steady effort not to pine;
'Twas hard to hear that laugh bloom out each minute,
And recognize the seeds of sorrow in it.
No misery makes a close observer mourn
Like hopeless grief with hopeful courage borne;
There's nothing sets the sympathies to paining
Like a complaining woman uncomplaining.
It always draws my breath out into sighs
To see a brave look in a woman's eyes.

Well, she went on, as plucky as could be,
Fighting the foe she thought I did not see,
And using her heart-horticultural powers
To turn that forest to a bed of flowers.
You cannot check an unadmitted sigh,
And so I had to soothe her on the sly,
And secretly to help her draw her load;
And soon it came to be an up-hill road.
Hard work bears hard upon the average pulse,
Even with satisfactory results;
But when effects are scarce, the heavy strain
Falls dead and solid on the heart and brain.
And when we're bothered, it will oft occur
We seek blame-timber; and I lit on her;
And looked at her with daily lessening favor,
For what I knew she couldn't help, to save her.
And Discord, when he once had called and seen us,
Came round quite often, and edged in between us.

One night, when I came home unusual late,
Too hungry and too tired to feel first-rate,
Her supper struck me wrong (though I'll allow
She hadn't much to strike with, anyhow);
And when I went to milk the cows, and found
They'd wandered from their usual feeding ground,
And maybe'd left a few long miles behind 'em,
Which I must copy, if I meant to find 'em,
Flash-quick the stay-chains of my temper broke,
And in a, trice these hot words I had spoke:
"You ought to've kept the animals in view,
And drove 'em in; you'd nothing else to do.
The heft of all our life on me must fall;
You just lie round and let me do it all."

That speech--it hadn't been gone a half a minute
Before I saw the cold black poison in it;
And I'd have given all I had, and more,
To've only safely got it back in-door.
I'm now what most folks "well-to-do" would call
I feel to-day as if I'd give it all,
Provided I through fifty years might reach
And kill and bury that half-minute speech.

She handed back no words, as I could hear;
She didn't frown; she didn't shed a tear;
Half proud, half crushed, she stood and looked me o'er,
Like some one she had never seen before!
But such a sudden anguish-lit surprise
I never viewed before in human eyes.
(I've seen it oft enough since in a dream;
It sometimes wakes me like a midnight scream.)

Next morning, when, stone-faced, but heavy-hearted,
With dinner pail and sharpened axe I started
Away for my day's work--she watched the door.
And followed me half way to it or more;
And I was just a-turning round at this,
And asking for my usual good-by kiss;
But on her lip I saw a proudish curve,
And in her eye a shadow of reserve;
And she had shown--perhaps half unawares--
Some little independent breakfast airs;
And so the usual parting didn't occur,
Although her eyes invited me to her!
Or rather half invited me, for she
Didn't advertise to furnish kisses free;
You always had--that is, I had--to pay
Full market price, and go more'n half the way.
So, with a short "Good-by," I shut the door,
And left her as I never had before.
But when at noon my lunch I came to eat.
Put up by her so delicately neat--
Choicer, somewhat, than yesterday's had been,
And some fresh, sweet-eyed pansies she'd put in--
"Tender and pleasant thoughts," I knew they meant--
It seemed as if her kiss with me she'd sent;
Then I became once more her humble lover,
And said, "To-night I'll ask forgiveness of her."

I went home over-early on that eve,
Having contrived to make myself believe,
By various signs I kind o' knew and guessed,
A thunder-storm was coming from the west.
('Tis strange, when one sly reason fills the heart,
How many honest ones will take its part:
A dozen first-class reasons said 'twas right
That I should strike home early on that night.)

Half out of breath, the cabin door I swung,
With tender heart-words trembling on my tongue;
But all within looked desolate and bare:
My house had lost its soul,--she was not there!
A penciled note was on the table spread,
And these are something like the words it said:
"The cows have strayed away again, I fear;
I watched them pretty close; don't scold me, dear.
And where they are, I think I nearly know:
I heard the bell not very long ago....
I've hunted for them all the afternoon;
I'll try once more--I think I'll find them soon.
Dear, if a burden I have been to you,
And haven't helped you as I ought to do.
Let old-time memories my forgiveness plead;
I've tried to do my best--I have indeed.
Darling, piece out with love the strength I lack,
And have kind words for me when I get back."

Scarce did I give this letter sight and tongue--
Some swift-blown rain-drops to the window clung,
And from the clouds a rough, deep growl proceeded:
My thunder-storm had come, now 'twasn't needed.
I rushed out-door. The air was stained with black:
Night had come early, on the storm-cloud's back:
And everything kept dimming to the sight,
Save when the clouds threw their electric light;
When for a flash, so clean-cut was the view,
I'd think I saw her--knowing 'twas not true.
Through my small clearing dashed wide sheets of spray,
As if the ocean waves had lost their way;
Scarcely a pause the thunder-battle made,
In the bold clamor of its cannonade.
And she, while I was sheltered, dry, and warm,
Was somewhere in the clutches of this storm!
She who, when storm-frights found her at her best,
Had always hid her white face on my breast!

My dog, who'd skirmished round me all the day,
Now crouched and whimpering, in a corner lay;
I dragged him by the collar to the wall,
I pressed his quivering muzzle to a shawl--
"Track her, old boy!" I shouted; and he whined,
Matched eyes with me, as if to read my mind,
Then with a yell went tearing through the wood,
I followed him, as faithful as I could.
No pleasure-trip was that, through flood and flame;
We raced with death: we hunted noble game.
All night we dragged the woods without avail;
The ground got drenched--we could not keep the trail,
Three times again my cabin home I found,
Half hoping she might be there, safe and sound;
But each time 'twas an unavailing care:
My house had lost its soul; she was not there!

When, climbing--the wet trees, next morning-sun.
Laughed at the ruin that the night had done,
Bleeding and drenched, by toil and sorrow bent,
Back to what used to be my home I went.
But as I neared our little clearing-ground--
Listen!--I heard the cow-bell's tinkling sound.
The cabin door was just a bit ajar;
It gleamed upon my glad eyes like a star,
"Brave heart," I said, "for such a fragile form!
She made them guide her homeward through the storm!"
Such pangs of joy I never felt before.
"You've come!" I shouted and rushed through the door.

Yes, she had come--and gone again. She lay
With all her young life crushed and wrenched away--
Lay, the heart-ruins of oar home among,
Not far from where I killed her with my tongue.
The rain-drops glittered 'mid her hair's long strands,
The forest thorns had torn her feet and hands,
And 'midst the tears--brave tears--that one could trace
Upon the pale but sweetly resolute face,
I once again the mournful words could read,
"I have tried to do my best--I have, indeed."

And now I'm mostly done; my story's o'er;
Part of it never breathed the air before.
'Tisn't over-usual, it must be allowed,
To volunteer heart-history to a crowd,
And scatter 'mongst them confidential tears,
But you'll protect an old man with his years;
And wheresoe'er this story's voice can reach,
This is the sermon I would have it preach:

Boys flying kites haul in their white-winged birds:
You can't do that way when you're flying words.
"Careful with fire," is good advice we know:
"Careful with words," is ten times doubly so.
Thoughts unexpressed may sometimes fall back dead,
But God himself can't kill them when they're said!
Yon have my life-grief: do not think a minute
'Twas told to take up time. There's business in it.
It sheds advice: whoe'er will take and live it,
Is welcome to the pain it cost to give it.

    _Will Carleton._

Seein' Things

I ain't afeard uv snakes, or toads, or bugs, or worms, or mice,
An' things 'at girls are skeered uv I think are awful nice!
I'm pretty brave, I guess; an' yet I hate to go to bed,
For, when I'm tucked up warm an' snug an' when my prayers are said,
Mother tells me "Happy dreams!" and takes away the light,
An' leaves me lying all alone an' seein' things at night!

Sometimes they're in the corner, sometimes they're by the door,
Sometimes they're all a-standin' in the middle uv the floor;
Sometimes they are a-sittin' down, sometimes they're walkin' round
So softly an' so creepylike they never make a sound!
Sometimes they are as black as ink, an' other times they're white--
But the color ain't no difference when you see things at night!

Once, when I licked a feller 'at had just moved on our street,
An' father sent me up to bed without a bite to eat,
I woke up in the dark an' saw things standin' in a row,
A-lookin' at me cross-eyed an' p'intin' at me--so!
Oh, my! I was so skeered that time I never slep' a mite--
It's almost alluz when I'm bad I see things at night!

Lucky thing I ain't a girl, or I'd be skeered to death!
Bein' I'm a boy, I duck my head an' hold my breath;
An' I am, oh! so sorry I'm a naughty boy, an' then
I promise to be better an' I say my prayers again!
Gran'ma tells me that's the only way to make it right
When a feller has been wicked an' sees things at night!

An' so, when other naughty boys would coax me into sin,
I try to skwush the Tempter's voice 'at urges me within;
An' when they's pie for supper, or cakes 'at's big an' nice,
I want to--but I do not pass my plate f'r them things twice!
No, ruther let Starvation wipe me slowly out o' sight
Than I should keep a-livin' on an' seein' things at night!

    _Eugene Field._

The Raggedy Man

Oh, The Raggedy Man! He works fer Pa;
An' he's the goodest man ever you saw!
He comes to our house every day,
An' waters the horses, an' feeds 'em hay;
An' he opens the shed--an' we all ist laugh
When he drives out our little old wobblely calf;
An' nen--ef our hired girl says he can--
He milks the cows fer 'Lizabuth Ann.--
  Ain't he a' awful good Raggedy Man?
    Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!

W'y, The Raggedy Man--he's ist so good,
He splits the kindlin' an' chops the wood;
An' nen he spades in our garden, too,
An' does most things 'at _boys_ can't do.--
He clumbed clean up in our big tree
An' shocked a' apple down fer me--
An' 'nother 'n', too, fer 'Lizabuth Ann--
An' 'nother 'n', too, fer The Raggedy Man.--
  Ain't he a' awful kind Raggedy Man?
    Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!

An' The Raggedy Man one time say he
Pick' roast' rambos from a' orchard-tree,
An' et 'em--all ist roas' an' hot!
An' it's so, too!--'cause a corn-crib got
Afire one time an' all burn' down
On "The Smoot Farm," 'bout four mile from town--
On "The Smoot Farm"! Yes--an' the hired han'
'At worked there nen 'uz The Raggedy Man!
  Ain't he the beanin'est Raggedy Man?
    Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!

The Raggedy Man's so good an' kind
He'll be our "horsey," an' "Haw" an' mind
Ever'thing 'at you make him do--
An' won't run off--'less you want him to!
I drived him wunst 'way down our lane
An' he got skeered, when it 'menced to rain,
An' ist rared up an' squealed and run
Purt' nigh away!--An' it's all in fun!
Nen he skeered ag'in at a' old tin can.
  Whoa! y' old runaway Raggedy Man!
    Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!

An' The Raggedy Man, he knows most rhymes,
An' tells 'em, ef I be good, sometimes:
Knows 'bout Giants, an' Griffuns, an' Elves,
An' the Squidgicum-Squees 'at swallers the'rselves!
An', wite by the pump la our pasture-lot,
He showed me the hole 'at the Wunks is got,
'At lives 'way deep in the ground, an' can
Turn into me, er 'Lizabuth Ann!
Er Ma, er Pa, er The Raggedy Man!
  Ain't he a funny old Raggedy Man?
    Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!

An' wunst when The Raggedy Man come late,
An' pigs ist root' thue the garden-gate,
He 'tend like the pigs 'uz bears an' said,
"Old Bear-shooter'll shoot 'em dead!"
An' race' an' chase' em, an' they'd ist run
When he pint his hoe at 'em like it's a gun
An' go "Bang!-Bang!" nen 'tend he stan'
An' load up his gun ag'in! Raggedy Man!
  He's an old Bear-Shooter Raggedy Man!
    Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!

An' sometimes The Raggedy Man lets on
We're little prince-children, an' old king's gone
To get more money, an' lef us there--
And Robbers is ist thick ever'where;
An' nen-ef we all won't cry, fer shore--
The Raggedy Man he'll come and "splore
The Castul-halls," an' steal the "gold"--
And steal us, too, an' grab an' hold
An' pack us off to his old "Cave"!-An'
  Haymow's the "Cave" o' The Raggedy Man!--
    Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!

The Raggedy Man--one time, when he
Wuz makin' a little bow-'n'-orry fer me,
Says "When you're big like your Pa is,
Air you go' to keep a fine store like his--
An' be a rich merchunt--an' wear fine clothes?--
Er what air you go' to be, goodness knows?"
An' nen he laughed at 'Lizabuth Ann,
An' I says "'M go' to be a Raggedy Man!--
  I'm ist go' to be a nice Raggedy Man!"
    Raggedy! Raggedy! Raggedy Man!

    _James Whitcomb Riley._

Maud Muller

Maud Muller, on a summer's day,
Raked the meadow sweet with hay.

Beneath her torn hat glowed the wealth
Of simple beauty and rustic health.

Singing, she wrought, and her merry glee
The mock-bird echoed from his tree.

But when she glanced to the far-off town,
White from its hill-slope looking down,

The sweet song died, and a vague unrest
And a nameless longing filled her breast,--

A wish, that she hardly dared to own,
For something better than she had known.

The Judge rode slowly down the lane,
Smoothing his horse's chestnut mane.

He drew his bridle in the shade
Of the apple-trees, to greet the maid,

And asked a draught from the spring that flowed
Through the meadow across the road.

She stooped where the cool spring bubbled up,
And filled for him her small tin cup,

And blushed as she gave it, looking down
On her feet so bare, and her tattered gown.

"Thanks!" said the Judge; "a sweeter draught
From a fairer hand was never quaffed."

He spoke of the grass and flowers and trees,
Of the singing birds and the humming' bees;

Then talked of the haying, and wondered whether
The cloud in the west would bring foul weather.

And Maud forgot her brier-torn gown,
And her graceful ankles bare and brown;

And listened, while a pleased surprise
Looked from her long-lashed hazel eyes.

At last, like one who for delay
Seeks a vain excuse, he rode away.

Maud Muller looked and sighed: "Ah, me!
That I the Judge's bride might be!

"He would dress me up in silks so fine,
And praise and toast me at his wine.

"My father should wear a broadcloth coat;
My brother should sail a painted boat.

"I'd dress my mother, so grand and gay,
And the baby should have a new toy each day.

"And I'd feed the hungry and clothe the poor,
And all should bless me who left our door."

The Judge looked back as he climbed the hill,
And saw Maud Muller standing still.

"A form more fair, a face more sweet.
Ne'er hath it been my lot to meet,

"And her modest answer and graceful air
Show her wise and good as she is fair.

"Would she were mine, and I to-day,
Like her, a harvester of hay:

"No doubtful balance of rights and, wrongs
Nor weary lawyers with endless tongues,

"But low of cattle and song of birds,
And health and quiet and loving words."

But he thought of his sisters proud and cold,
And his mother vain of her rank and gold.

So, closing his heart, the Judge rode on,
And Maud was left in the field alone.

But the lawyers smiled that afternoon,
When he hummed in court an old love-tune;

And the young girl mused beside the well
Till the rain on the unraked clover fell.

He wedded a wife of richest dower,
Who lived for fashion, as he for power.

Yet oft, in his marble hearth's bright glow,
He watched a picture come and go;

And sweet Maud Muller's hazel eyes
Looked out in their innocent surprise.

Oft, when the wine in his glass was red,
He longed for the wayside well instead;

And closed his eyes on his garnished rooms
To dream of meadows and clover-blooms.

And the proud man sighed, with a secret pain,
"Ah, that I were free again!

"Free as when I rode that day,
Where the barefoot maiden raked her hay."

She wedded a man unlearned and poor,
And many children played round her door.

But care and sorrow, and childbirth pain,
Left their traces on heart and brain.

And oft, when the summer sun shone hot
On the new-mown hay in the meadow lot,

And she heard the little spring brook fall
Over the roadside, through the wall,

In the shade of the apple-tree again
She saw a rider draw his rein.

And, gazing down with timid grace,
She felt his pleased eyes read her face.

Sometimes her narrow kitchen walls
Stretched away into stately halls;

The weary wheel to a spinnet turned,
The tallow candle an astral burned,

And for him who sat by the chimney lug,
Dozing and grumbling o'er pipe and mug,

A manly form at her side she saw,
And joy was duty and love was law.

Then she took up her burden of life again,
Saying only, "It might have been."

Alas for maiden, alas for Judge,
For rich repiner and household drudge!

God pity them both! and pity us all,
Who vainly the dreams of youth recall.

For of all sad words of tongue or pen,
The saddest are these: "It might have been!"

Ah, well! for us all some sweet hope lies
Deeply buried from human eyes;

And, in the hereafter, angels may
Roll the stone from its grave away!

    _John G. Whittier._

Sister and I

We were hunting for wintergreen berries,
  One May-day, long gone by,
Out on the rocky cliff's edge,
  Little sister and I.
Sister had hair like the sunbeams;
  Black as a crow's wing, mine;
Sister had blue, dove's eyes;
  Wicked, black eyes are mine.
Why, see how my eyes are faded--
  And my hair, it is white as snow!
And thin, too! don't you see it is?
  I tear it sometimes; so!
There, don't hold my hands, Maggie,
  I don't feel like tearing it now;
But--where was I in my story?
  Oh, I was telling you how
We were looking for wintergreen berries;
  'Twas one bright morning in May,
And the moss-grown rocks were slippery
  With the rains of yesterday.
But I was cross that morning,
  Though the sun shone ever so bright--
And when sister found the most berries,
  I was angry enough to fight!
And when she laughed at my pouting--
  We were little things, you know--
I clinched my little fist up tight,
  And struck her the biggest blow!
I struck her--I tell you--I struck her,
  And she fell right over below--
There, there, Maggie, I won't rave now;
  You needn't hold me so--
She went right over, I tell you,
  Down, down to the depths below!
'Tis deep and dark and horrid
  There where the waters flow!
She fell right over, moaning,
  "Bessie, oh, Bessie!" so sad,
That, when I looked down affrighted,
  It drove me _mad--mad_!
Only her golden hair streaming
  Out on the rippling wave,
Only her little hand reaching
  Up, for someone to save;
And she sank down in the darkness,
  I never saw her again,
And this is a chaos of blackness
  And darkness and grief since then.
No more playing together
  Down on the pebbly strand;
Nor building our dolls stone castles
  With halls and parlors grand;
No more fishing with bent pins,
  In the little brook's clear waves;
No more holding funerals
  O'er dead canaries' graves;
No more walking together
  To the log schoolhouse each morn;
No more vexing the master
  With putting his rules to scorn;
No more feeding of white lambs
  With milk from the foaming pail;
No more playing "see-saw"
  Over the fence of rail;
No more telling of stories
  After we've gone to bed;
Nor talking of ghosts and goblins
  Till we fairly shiver with dread;
No more whispering fearfully
  And hugging each other tight,
When the shutters shake and the dogs howl
  In the middle of the night;
No more saying "Our Father,"
  Kneeling by mother's knee--
For, Maggie, I _struck_ sister!
  And mother is dead, you see.
Maggie, sister's an angel,
  Isn't she? Isn't it true?
For angels have golden tresses
  And eyes like sister's, blue?
Now _my_ hair isn't golden,
  My eyes aren't blue, you see--
Now tell me, Maggie, if I were to die,
  Could they make an angel of me?
You say, "Oh, yes"; you think so?
  Well, then, when I come to die,
We'll play up there, in God's garden--
  We'll play there, sister and I.
Now, Maggie, you needn't eye me
  Because I'm talking so queer;
Because I'm talking so strangely;
  You needn't have the least fear,
Somehow I'm feeling to-night, Maggie,
  As I never felt before--
I'm sure, I'm sure of it, Maggie,
  I never shall rave any more.
Maggie, you know how these long years
  I've heard her calling, so sad,
"Bessie, oh, Bessie!" so mournful?
  It always drives me _mad_!
How the winter wind shrieks down the chimney,
  "Bessie, oh, Bessie!" oh! oh!
How the south wind wails at the casement,
  "Bessie, oh, Bessie!" so low,
But most of all when the May-days
  Come back, with the flowers and the sun,
How the night-bird, singing, all lonely,
  "Bessie, oh, Bessie!" doth moan;
You know how it sets me raving--
  For _she_ moaned, "_Oh, Bessie!_" just so,
That time I _struck_ little sister,
  On the May-day long ago!
Now, Maggie, I've something to tell you--
  You know May-day is here--
Well, this very morning, at sunrise,
  The robins chirped "Bessie!" so clear--
All day long the wee birds singing,
  Perched on the garden wall,
Called "Bessie, oh, Bessie!" so sweetly,
  I couldn't feel sorry at all.
Now, Maggie, I've something to tell you--
  Let me lean up to you close--
Do you see how the sunset has flooded
  The heavens with yellow and rose?
Do you see o'er the gilded cloud mountains
  Sister's golden hair streaming out?
Do you see her little hand beckoning?
  Do you hear her little voice calling out
"Bessie, oh, Bessie!" so gladly,
  "Bessie, oh, Bessie! Come, haste"?
Yes, sister, I'm coming; I'm coming,

                    AN ALPHABET
                  OF OLD FRIENDS

                  by Walter Crane

An alphabet of old friends originally published 1874;

AN ALPHABET OF OLD FRIENDS

A

A carrion crow sat on an oak,
Watching a tailor shape his cloak.
"Wife, bring me my old bent bow,
That I may shoot yon carrion crow."
The tailor he shot and missed his mark,
And shot his own sow quite through the heart.
"Wife, wife, bring brandy in a spoon,
For our old sow is in a swoon."

B

Ba, ba, black sheep,
  Have you any wool?
Yes, marry, have I,
  Three bags full.
One for my master,
  One for my dame,
But none for the little boy
  That cries in the lane.

C

_Hen._  Cock, cock, I have la-a-ayed!
_Cock._ Hen, hen, that's well sa-a-ayed!
_Hen._  Although I have to go bare-footed every day-a-ay!
_Cock._ (_Con spirito._) Sell your eggs and buy shoes!
                           Sell your eggs and buy shoes!

D

Dickery, dickery, dock,
The mouse ran up the clock.
  The clock struck one,
  Down the mouse ran,
Dickery, dickery, dock.

E

Elizabeth, Elspeth, Betsy, and Bess,
They all went together to seek a bird's nest
They found a bird's nest with five eggs in;
They all took one, and left four in.

F

Father, father, I've come to confess.
O, yes, dear daughter, what have you done?

G

Gang and hear the owl yell,
Sit and see the swallow flee,
See the foal before its mither's e'e,
'Twill be a thriving year wi' thee.

H

Hush-a-bye, baby, on the tree-top;
When the wind blows the cradle will rock;
When the wind ceases the cradle will fall,
And down will come baby and cradle and all.

I

I had a little husband
  No bigger than my thumb;
I put him in a pint pot,
  And there I bade him drum.
I bought a little horse
  That galloped up and down;
I bridled him, and saddled him,
  And sent him out of town.
I gave him a pair of garters,
  To tie up his little hose,
And a little silk handkerchief,
  To wipe his little nose.

J

Jack Sprat would eat no fat,
His wife would eat no lean;
Was not that a pretty trick
To make the platter clean?

K

King Cole was a merry old soul,
  And a merry old soul was he.
He called for his pipe, and he called for his bowl,
  And he called for his fiddlers three
  Every fiddler had a fiddle,
  And a very fine fiddle had he;
Twee, tweedle dee, tweedle dee, went the fiddlers.
  Oh, there's none so rare
  As can compare
With King Cole and his fiddlers three!

L

Little Bo-peep has lost her sheep,
  And can't tell where to find them.
Let them alone and they'll come home,
  And bring their tails behind them, &c.

M

  Mistress Mary,
  Quite contrary,
How does your garden grow?
  With silver bells,
  And cockle shells.
And cowslips all of a-row.

N

Needles and pins, needles and pins,
When a man marries his trouble begins.

O

Once I saw a little bird,
  Come hop, hop, hop;
So I cried, "Little bird,
  Will you stop, stop, stop?"
And was going to the window,
  To say, "How do you do?"
When he shook his little tail,
  And far away he flew.

P

Pease-pudding hot, pease-pudding cold;
Pease-pudding in the pot, nine days old.

Q

Queen was in the parlour, eating bread and honey.

R

Ride a-cock horse to Banbury Cross,
To see an old woman get up on her horse;
Rings on her fingers and bells at her toes,
And so she makes music wherever she goes.

S

Simple Simon met a pieman,
  Going to the fair;
Says Simple Simon to the pieman,
  "Let me taste your ware!"

T

Taffy was a Welshman,
  Taffy was a thief,
Taffy came to my house,
  And stole a leg of beef.

I went to Taffy's house,
  Taffy was not at home;
Taffy came to my house,
  And stole a marrow-bone.

I went to Taffy's house,
  Taffy was in bed;
I took the marrow-bone,
  And broke Taffy's head.

U

Up hill and down dale,
Butter is made in every vale;
And if Nancy Cock
Is a good girl,
She shall have a spouse,
And make butter anon,
Before her old grandmother
Grows a young man.

V

Valentine, Oh, Valentine,
  Curl your locks as I do mine;
Two before and two behind;
  Good-morrow to you, Valentine.

W

"Where are you going, my pretty maid?"
"I'm going a milking, sir," she said.
"May I go with you, my pretty maid?"
"You're kindly welcome, sir," she said.
"What is your father, my pretty maid?"
"My father's a farmer, sir," she said.
"Say will you marry me, my pretty maid?"
"Yes, if you please, kind sir," she said.
"What is your fortune, my pretty maid?"
"My face is my fortune, sir," she said.
"Then, I won't marry you, my pretty maid!"
"Nobody asked you, sir," she said.

X

  Cross X patch,
  Draw the latch,
Sit by the fire and spin:
  Take a cup
  And drink it up,
Then call the neighbours in.

Y

You know that Monday is Sunday's brother;
Tuesday is such another;
Wednesday you must go to church and pray;
Thursday is half-holiday;
On Friday it is too late to begin to spin,
And Saturday is half-holiday again.

Z

ZODIAC FOR THE NURSERY.

The ram, the bull, the heavenly twins,
And next the crab, the lion shines,
  The virgin and the scales,
The scorpion, archer, and the goat,
The man who holds the watering-pot,
  And fish with glittering scales.

To HAFIZ

Contents

                                 Page

The Kitten's Garden _of_ Verses

Winter and Summer

    In Winter when the air is chill,
        And winds are blowing loud and shrill,
    All snug and warm I sit and purr,
        Wrapped in my overcoat of fur.

    In Summer quite the other way,
        I find it very hot all day,
    But Human People do not care,
        For they have nice thin clothes to wear.

    And does it not seem hard to you,
        When all the world is like a stew,
    And I am much too warm to purr,
        I have to wear my Winter Fur?

Rain

    The rain is raining everywhere,
        Kittens to shelter fly--
    But Human Folk wear overshoes,
        To keep their hind paws dry.

The Shadow Kitten

    There's a funny little kitten that tries to look like me,
        But though I'm round and fluffy, he's as flat as flat can be;
    And when I try to mew to him he never makes a sound,
        And when I jump into the air he never leaves the ground.

    He has a way of growing, I don't understand at all.
        Sometimes he's very little and sometimes he's very tall.
    And once when in the garden when the sun came up at dawn
        He grew so big I think he stretched half-way across the lawn.

Education

    When People think that Kittens play,
       It's really quite the other way.
    For when they chase the Ball or Bobbin
       They learn to catch a Mouse or Robin.

    The Kitten, deaf to Duty's call,
       Who will not chase the bounding ball,
    A hungry Cathood will enjoy,
       The scorn of Mouse and Bird and Boy.

A Thought

    It's very nice to think of how
    In every country lives a Cow
    To furnish milk with all her might
    For Kittens' comfort and delight.

The Lion

    The Lion does not move at all,
        Winter or Summer, Spring or Fall,
    He does not even stretch or yawn,
        But lies in silence on the lawn.

    He must be lazy it is plain,
        For there is moss upon his mane,
    And what is more, a pair of Daws
        Have built a nest between his paws.

    Oh, Lazy Lion, big and brown,
        This is no time for lying down!
    The Sun is shining, can't you see?
        Oh, please wake up and play with me.

The Milk Jug

    The Gentle Milk Jug blue and white
        I love with all my soul,
    She pours herself with all her might
        To fill my breakfast bowl.

    All day she sits upon the shelf,
        She does not jump or climb--
    She only waits to pour herself
        When 'tis my supper-time.

    And when the Jug is empty quite,
        I shall not mew in vain,
    The Friendly Cow, all red and white,
        Will fill her up again.

Happy Thought

    The world is so full of a number of Mice
    I'm sure that we all should be happy and nice.

Kitten's Night Thought

    When Human Folk put out the light,
       And think they've made it dark as night,
    A Pussy Cat sees every bit
       As well as when the lights are lit.

    When Human Folk have gone upstairs,
       And shed their skins and said their prayers,
    And there is no one to annoy,
       Then Pussy may her life enjoy.

    No Human hands to pinch or slap,
       Or rub her fur against the nap,
    Or throw cold water from a pail,
       Or make a handle of her tail.

    And so you will not think it wrong
       When she can play the whole night long,
    With no one to disturb her play,
       That Pussy goes to bed by day.

The Puncture

    When I was just a Kitten small,
        They gave to me a Rubber Ball
    To roll upon the floor.
        One day I tapped it with my paw
    And pierced the rubber with my claw;
        Now it will roll no more.

Good and Bad Kittens

    Kittens, you are very little,
        And your kitten bones are brittle,
    If you'd grow to Cats respected,
        See your play be not neglected.

    Smite the Sudden Spool, and spring
        Upon the Swift Elusive String,
    Thus you learn to catch the wary
        Mister Mouse or Miss Canary.

    That is how in Foreign Places
        Fluffy Cubs with Kitten faces,
    Where the mango waves sedately,
        Grow to Lions large and stately.

    But the Kittencats who snatch
        Rudely for their food, or scratch,
    Grow to Tomcats gaunt and gory,--
        Theirs is quite another story.

    Cats like these are put away
        By the dread S. P. C. A.,
    Or to trusting Aunts and Sisters
        Sold as Sable Muffs and Wristers.

Anticipation

    When I grow up I mean to be
    A Lion large and fierce to see.
    I'll mew so loud that Cook in fright
    Will give me all the cream in sight.
    And anyone who dares to say
    "Poor Puss" to me will rue the day.
    Then having swallowed him I'll creep
    Into the Guest Room Bed to sleep.

Foreign Kittens

    Kittens large and Kittens small,
    Prowling on the Back Yard Wall,
    Though your fur be rough and few,
    I should like to play with you.
    Though you roam the dangerous street,
    And have curious things to eat,
    Though you sleep in barn or loft,
    With no cushions warm and soft,
    Though you have to stay out-doors
    When it's cold or when it pours,
    Though your fur is all askew--
    How I'd like to play with you!

The Joy Ride

    When Mistress Peggy moves around,
        Her dresses make a mocking sound.
    "You can't catch me!" they seem to say--
        I often steal a ride that way.

Facilis Ascensus

    Up into the Cherry Tree,
        Who should climb but little me,
    With both my Paws I hold on tight,
        And look upon a pleasant sight.

    There are the Gardens far away,
        Where little Foreign Kittens play,
    And those queer specks of black and brown
        Are naughty cats that live in Town.

    And there among the tulips red,
        Where I may never lay my head,
    I see the Cruel Gardener hoe
        The baby weeds that may not grow.

    Now I climb down--"Oh dear,"--I mew,
        "Which end goes first--what shall I do?
    Oh, good Kind Gardener, big and brown,
        Please come and help this Kitten down."

The Whole Duty of Kittens

    When Human Folk at Table eat,
       A Kitten must not mew for meat,
    Or jump to grab it from the Dish,
       (_Unless it happens to be fish_).

The Outing

    My Bed is like a little Bark,
       The hatch is battened down,
    And in the basket cabin dark
       I sail away from Town.

    Now, when they lift the lid, a scene
       Of wonder meets my eyes,
    Tall waving Feather-Dusters green,
       That seem to touch the skies.

    And over all the Ground is spread
       A Rug of Emerald sweet,
    Most deep enough to hide my head
       And tickly to my feet.

    And here's the Cow, calm-eyed stands she,
       The Genie of the Jug,
    Beneath the Feather-Duster Tree,
       And eats the Emerald Rug.

The Puppy

    The Puppy cannot mew or talk,
        He has a funny kind of walk,
    His tail is difficult to wag
        And that's what makes him walk zigzag.

    He is the Kitten of a Dog,
        From morn till night he's all agog--
    Forever seeking something new
        That's good but isn't meant to chew.

    He romps about the Tulip bed,
        And chews the Flowers white and red,
    And when the Gardener comes to see
        He's sure to blame mamma or me.

    One game that cannot ever fail
        To please him is to chase his tail--
    (To catch one's tail, 'twixt me and you,
        Is not an easy thing to do.)

    If he has not a pretty face
        The Puppy's heart is in its place.
    I'm sorry he must grow into
        A Horrid, Noisy Dog, aren't you?

The Moon

    The Moon is like a big round cheese
        That shines above the garden trees,
    And like a cheese grows less each night,
        As though some one had had a bite.

    The Mouse delights to nibble cheese,
        The Dog bites anything he sees--
    But how could they bite off the Moon
        Unless they went in a balloon?

    And Human People, when they eat
        They think it rude to bite their meat,
    They use a Knife or Fork or Spoon;
        Who is it then that bites the moon?

The Golden Cat

    Great is the Golden Cat who treads
         The Blue Roof Garden o'er our heads,
    The never tired smiling One
         That Human People call the Sun.

    He stretches forth his paw at dawn
         And though the blinds are closely drawn
    His claws peep through like Rays of Light,
         To catch the fluttering Bird of Night.

    He smiles into the Hayloft dim
         And the brown Hay smiles back at him,
    And when he strokes the Earth's green fur
         He makes the Fields and Meadows purr.

    His face is one big Golden smile,
         It measures round, at least a mile--
    How dull our World would be, and flat,
         Without the Golden Pussy Cat.

An Inquiry

    A Birdie cocked his little head,
        Winked his eye at me and said,
    "Say, are you a Pussy Willer,
        Or just a Kitty-Catty pillar?"

A Kitten's Fancy

    The Kitten mews outside the Door,
         The Cat-bird in the Tree,
    The Sea-mew mews upon the Shore,
         The Catfish in the Sea.

    The Emu with his feathers queer
         Is mewing in the Zoo.
    Why is it that I never hear
         A Pussy-willow mew?

In Darkest Africa

    At evening when the lamp is lit,
        The tired Human People sit
    And doze, or turn with solemn looks
        The speckled pages of their books.

    Then I, the Dangerous Kitten, prowl
        And in the Shadows softly growl,
    And roam about the farthest floor
        Where Kitten never trod before.

    And, crouching in the jungle damp,
        I watch the Human Hunter's camp,
    Ready to spring with fearful roar
        As soon as I shall hear them snore.

    And then with stealthy tread I crawl
         Into the dark and trackless hall,
    Where 'neath the Hat-tree's shadows deep
         Umbrellas fold their wings and sleep.

    A cuckoo calls--and to their dens
         The People climb like frightened hens,
    And I'm alone--and no one cares
         In Darkest Africa--down stairs.

The Dog

    The Dog is black or white or brown
        And sometimes spotted like a clown.
    He loves to make a foolish noise
        And Human Company enjoys.

    The Human People pat his head
        And teach him to pretend he's dead,
    And beg, and fetch and carry too;
        Things that no well-bred Cat will do.

    At Human jokes, however stale,
        He jumps about and wags his tail,
    And Human People clap their hands
        And think he really understands.

    They say "Good Dog" to him. To us
        They say "Poor Puss," and make no fuss.
    Why Dogs are "good" and Cats are "poor"
        I fail to understand, I'm sure.

    To Someone very Good and Just,
        Who has proved worthy of her trust,
    A Cat will _sometimes_ condescend--
        The Dog is Everybody's friend.

The Game

    Watching a ball on the end of a string,
        Watching it swing back and to,
    Oh, I do think it the pleasantest thing
        Ever a Kitten can do.

    First it goes this way, then it goes that,
        Just like a bird on the wing.
    And all of a tremble I crouch on the mat
        Like a Lion, preparing to spring.

    And now with a terrible deafening mew,
        Like a Tiger I leap on my prey,
    And just when I think I have torn it in two
        It is up in the air and away.Online Distributed Proofreading Team

NOTHING TO EAT

By Horatio Alger and Thomas Chandler Haliburton

Illustrated.

NOT By the Author of "Nothing to Wear"

"I'll nibble a little at what I have got."

      --"My appetite's none of the best.
  And so I must pamper the delicate thing."

      --The least mite will suffice:
  A side bone and dressing and bit of the breast.
    The tip of the rump--that's it--and one of the fli's"

NEW YORK

Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1857,
by EDWARD O. JENKINS, in the Clerk's Office of the District
Court for the Southern District of New York.

Respectfully Dedicated

TO ALL LADIES "DYING WITH DYSPEPSIA.

"Where fashion and folly are all of a suit."

BY A JOLLY GOOD NATURED AUTHOR.

CONTENTS.

THE ARGUMENT

THE PROOF--THE QUEEN OF FASHION

THE OBJECT AIMED AT

WHAT ANOTHER POET DID

HOW THE AUTHOR SOMETIMES DINES

MERDLE THE BANKER

PLACES WHERE MORTALS DINE

THINGS THAT MORTALS EAT THERE

THE INVITATION

THE MERDLE ORIGIN

MRS. MERDLE AT HOME

MRS. MERDLE GOES TO MARKET

THE DINNER-BELL RINGS

THE DINNER TABLE TALK

MRS. MERDLE DOUBTS PARADISE'S UNEATING PLEASURES

MRS. MERDLE DISCOURSETH OF THINGS EARTHLY

MRS. MERDLE DISCOURSETH OF THINGS EATABLE

MRS. MERDLE ORDERETH THE SECOND COURSE

MRS. MERDLE DISCOURSETH OF HYGIENE AND FISH SAUCE

MRS. MEEDLE DESCRIBETH HER DOCTOR

MRS. MERDLE DISCOURSETH AGAIN ON DINNER

MRS. MERDLE ACCEPTETH OF A SLIGHT DINNER, SUITABLE FOR A WOMAN
SUFFERING WITH DYSPEPSIA.

MRS. MERDLE DISCOURSETH OF WISHES AND HER SUFFERING

MRS. MERDLE DISCOURSETH OF PUDDING

MRS. MERDLE DISCOURSETH OF THE NECESSITY OF GOOD WINE AND OTHER
MATTERS

MRS. MERDLE SUGGESTETH THAT DINNER BEING FINISHED, THE GENTLEMEN
WILL SMOKE. IN THE MEANTIME, SHE DISCOURSETH

MRS. MERDLE, HAVING "NIBBLED A LITTLE" FOR TWO HOURS AT DINNER,
RETIRETH FROM THE TABLE UNSATISFIED

THE POET MORALIZETH.--HE DISCOURSETH TO THOSE WHO GORGE AND COMPLAIN

HE DISCOURSETH OF THE WHEREFORE OF BACHELORISM

HE DISCOURSETH OF WHAT SOME MORTALS LIVE FOR

HE IMPLORETH MERCY UPON THOSE WHO ARE CONDEMNED WITH FASHIONABLE
FOLLY TO MARRY, AND ILLUSTRATETH THEIR CONDITION

HE IMPLORETH MERCY FOR OTHER UNFORTUNATE BEINGS

HE DISCOURSETH OF A COMMON PRAYER

HE DISCOURSETH OF TROUBLE AND SORROW

HE MORALIZETH UPON WHAT A DAY MAY BRING FORTH

HAVING REACHED THIRTYSIXTHLY, THE AUTHOR IS ABOUT TO MAKE THE
"APPLICATION," AND PRAY FORGIVENESS, BUT CONCLUDES BY REMAINING
INCOG

ILLUSTRATIONS.

PLATE I, NOTHING TO EAT

PLATE II, THE "DINING SALOON"

PLATE III, THE INVITATION TO DINNER

PLATE IV, KITTY MALONE'S INHERITANCE

PLATE V, THE MEAT MARKET

PLATE VI, THE DINNER

PLATE VII, THE WATER CURE

PLATE VIII, AFTER DINNER

NOTHING TO EAT.

Not by the Author of "Nothing to Wear."

The Argument

   THOUGH famine prevails not at all in the city;
   Though none of starvation have died in the street;
   Yet many there are now exciting our pity,
   Who're daily complaining of nothing to eat.

   The every-day cry and the every-day fare,
   That's every day heard where the Livewells are dining,
   Is nothing to eat, or else nothing to wear,
   Which naked and starving rich Merdles are whining.

   There's Kitty Malone--Mrs. Merdle 'tis now--
   Was ever on earth here before such a sinner;
   Protesting, excusing and swearing a vow,
   She'd nothing worth eating to give us for dinner.

   Why Kitty, if starving for want of a meal,
   And had'nt a cent in the world to buy meat,
   You wouldn't exclaim with a more pious zeal,
   "I'm dying of hunger--we've nothing to eat!!"

The Proof--the Queen of Fashion

   The point I advance, if it need confirmation,
   I'll prove by a witness that few will dispute,
   A pink of perfection and truth in the naion
   Where fashion and folly are all of a suit.

   'Tis "Merdle the banker"--or rather his wife,
   Whose fashion, religion, or music, or dress,
   Is followed, consulted, by many through life,
   As pilots are followed by ships in distress;
   For money's a pilot, a master, a king,
   Which men follow blindly through quicksands and shoals,
   Where pilots their ships in a moment might fling
   To destruction the vessel and cargo and souls.

   'Twas money made Kitty of fashion the queen,
   And fortune oft lends queens the scepter;
   So fortune and fashion with this one we've seen
   Her money and fortune in fashion has kept her;
   While slaves of the queen with her hoops rules the day,
   Expanding their utmost extent of expansion,
   And mandates of fashion most freely obey,
   And would if it bid all their souls to extinction.

The Object aimed at.

   But what "lady patron" as queen holds the sway;
   Or sweeping, whose hoops in the street are most sweeping;
   The burthen is not of this truth-telling lay,
   That should in its reading the world set to weeping,
   While telling the suff'rings from head to the feet,
   Of poor human beings with _nothing to eat_.

What another Poet did.

   Another expounder of life's thorny mazes
   Excited our pity at fortune's hard fare,
   And troubled the city's most troublesome places,
   While singing his ditty of "Nothing to Wear."

   "A tale worth the telling,"' though I tell for the same,
   Great objects of pity we see in the street,
   "With nothing to wear, though a legion by name,
   Is not to buy clothing, but something to eat.

How the Author sometimes Dines.

   And now by your leave I will try to expound it,
   In truth as it is and the way that I found it.

   My dinner, sometimes, like things transcendental
   And things more substantial, like women and wine
   A thing is, uncertain, and quite accidental,
   And sometimes I wonder, "Oh! where shall I dine?"

   It was when reflecting one evening of late,
   What tavern or hotel or dining-room skinner,
   With table cloth dirty and dirtier plate,
   Would give me a nausea and call it a dinner,
   I met with Jack Merdle, a name fully known
   As good for a million in Stock-gamblers' Street,
   Where none but a nabob or forger high flown
   With "bulls" or with "bears" need look for a seat.

Merdle the Banker.

   Now Merdle this day having toss'd with his horns
   The bears that were pulling so hard at the stocks,
   And gored every bull that was treading his corns,
   Had lined all his pockets with "plenty of rocks,"
   And home now was driving at "two forty" speed,
   Where dinner was waiting--"a jolly good feed."

   Himself feeling happy, he knew by my looks,
   A case full of sadness and deep destitution
   Was present in person, not read of in books,
   Appealing in pity for an alms institution.

Places Where Mortals Dine.

   The case, too, was urgent, for there stood a sinner,
   Whose fate hung on chance--a chance for his dinner;
   A chance for all mortals, with truth I assert,
   Who eat where his chance was, to counteract fate,
   "To eat during life each a peck of pure dirt"
   By eating at once the whole peck from one plate.
   For true when I think of the places we eat at,
   Or rather the places by hunger when driven
   We rush in and swallow our bread and our meat at,
   A bushel good measure in life will be given
   To those who are living a "boarding-house life,"
   Or those who are driven by fortune to journey,
   And eat when we must with so dirty a knife,
   I wish't could be done by the power of attorney;
   Or where you must eat in a place called "saloon;"
   Or "coffee-house" synonym of whisky and rum;
   (I wish all the breed were sent off to the moon,
   And earth was well clear of the coffee-house scum;)
   Or where "Restauration" hangs out for sign,
   At bar-room or cellar or dirty back room,
   Where dishcloths for napkins are thought extra fine,
   And table cloths look as though washed with a broom;
   Where knives waiters spit on and wipe on their sleeves,
   And plates needing polish, with coat tails are cleaned;
   Where priests dine with harlots, and judges with thieves,
   And mayors with villains his worship has screened.

   [ILLUSTRATION: "WHERE KNIVES WAITERS SPIT ON AND WIPE ON THEIR

Things That Mortals Eat There.

   And what do you eat in the mess there compounded?
   For roast beef, the gravy the soap-man should claim--
   The soup some odd things might turn up if sounded,
   And other "made-dishes" might turn up the same.

   Decoctions that puzzle your chemical skill,
   You get if you call either coffee or tea;
   And milk that is made with and tastes of the swill,
   As like milk, as wine is that often we see
   Is like to the juice of the grape in perfection,
   Or like as the candidate after election
   Is like the fair thing that we hoped or expected
   Before the base thief was exposed or detected;
   As like truth and virtue--and more is the pity--
   The men we elected to rule our own city.

   In "council" while sitting, though "common" we call them,
   In common opinion, if people at large
   Are's common in morals, no worse could befal 'em
   If Satan should take them at once in his charge.

   If food as their filth was as plenty for diet,
   No lack would they feel of the coveted cash,
   Or power they maintain with the power of a riot,
   When heads of opponents are served up as hash
   By Star-chamber cooks of the club "restoration,"
   That rules now the city and would rule the nation,
   If "Sachems" were willing the "Wigwam" to yield,
   And give the arch-traitor a fair fighting field.

   But fighting just now is not our intention,
   But dining with Merdle, the banker, in state,
   And only these items like side dishes mention,
   While waiting the coming the main dinner plate.

The Invitation.

   While waiting debating I stated before,
   Jack Merdle drove up in his carriage and bays,
   "Halloo," said the banker, "I see you're ashore--
   No wonder--this weather is all in a haze--
   But come in my carriage, and truly confess
   You're a victim of hunger and dinner down town;
   A case of most common distressing distress;
   When dining in public with Jones, Smith or Brown,
   Or some other practical men of the nation,
   Is worse on the whole than a little starvation.

   But come home with me for the sake of Lang Syne,
   And see Mrs. Merdle and see how we dine.

   I must not expect," he advised in advance,
   "To meet with a dinner got up in perfection,
   But must run the risk of the luck and the chance,
   As candidates do on the day of election."

The Merdle Origin.

   Now Merdle, _en passant_, I had known for a score
   Of years, when a dinner with Jones, Brown or Smith
   As good as one gets for a quarter or more,
   Was a thing unthought of, or else but a myth
   In Merde's day-dreaming of things yet in store,
   When hope painted visions of a painted abode,
   And hope never hoped for anything more--
   I'm sure never dreamed he would dine _a la mode_.

   In dreams wildest fancy I doubt if he dreamed,
   That time in its changes that wears rocky shores,
   Should change what so changeless certainly seemed,
   Till Merdle, Jack Merdle, would own twenty stores,
   Much more own a bank, e'en the horse that he rode,
   Or pay half the debts of the wild oats he sowed.

   I knew when he worked at his old father's trade,
   And thought he would stick to his wax and the last,
   But Fortune, the fickle, incontinent jade,
   A turn to his fortune has given a cast;
   "A wife with a fortune," which men hunt in packs,
   To Jack was the fortune that fell to his share;
   A fortune that often is such a hard tax,
   That men hurry through it with "nothing to spare,"
   With "nothing to eat," or a house "fit to live in,"
   With "nothing half decent" to put on their backs,
   With nothing "exclusive" to have or believe in,
   "Except what is common to common street hacks."

   So fortune and comfort, that should be like brothers,
   Though fought for and bled for where fortunes are made,
   Though sought for and failed of by ten thousand others,
   Are not worth the fighting and fuss that is made.

   But fortune for Merdle by Cupid was cast,
   And bade him look higher than wax and the last,
   That Merdle his father, with good honest trade,
   Had used with the stitches his waxed end had made.

   I knew when old Merdle lived down by the mill,
   I often went fishing and Jack dug the bait;
   But Jack Merdle then never thought he should fill
   With fish and roast meat such a full dinner plate:
   Nor I, when my line which I threw for a trout
   While Jack watched the bob of the light floating cork,
   Ever thought of the time in a "Merdle turn out"
   To ride, or to dine with a pearl handle fork
   In Jack's splendid mansion, where taste, waste and style,
   Contend for preemption, as then by the mill,
   Old Merdle contended with fortune the while,
   For bread wherewithal Jack's belly to fill.

   [Illustration: "I NEVER THOUGHT THEN LITTLE KITTY MALONE, AS HEIR TO

   I never thought then little Kitty Malone
   As heir to old Gripus would bring him the cash,
   'Pon which as a banker Jack Merdle has shone,
   And Kitty in fashion has cut such a dash;
   Nor when as a girl not a shoe to her feet,
   She accepted my offers of coppers or candy,
   She would tell me in satin "we've nothing to eat,"
   While eating from silver or sipping her brandy,
   And wond'ring that Merdle, the Jack I have named,
   Should bring home a friend--('twas thus she exclaimed--
   The day that I've mentioned--a day to remember--
   When Merdle and I in his carriage and bays,
   Through Avenue Five on a day in September,
   Drove up to a mansion with gas-light ablaze.)

Mrs. Merdle At Home.

   She Discourseth of Nothing to Eat and the Cost thereof.

   Why Merdle--why did you bring Dinewell to-day?
   So very, though welcome, so quite unexpected!

   For dinner, if any, I'm sure I can't say,
   Our servants with washing are all so infected.

   If any's provided, 't is nothing but scraps
   Of pot-luck or pick up of some common fare;
   Or something left over from last week perhaps,
   Which you've brought a friend, and an old one, to share.

   I never, I'm sure now, so much was ashamed,
   To think he'll discover--what's true to the letter--
   We've nothing, or next to't that's fit to be named,
   For one who is used every day to what's better.

   But what can you expect if you come on a Monday?
   Our French cook's away too, I vow and declare--
   But if you would see us with something to spare,
   Let's know when you're coming, or come on a Sunday;
   For that of all others, for churchmen or sinners,
   A day is for gorging with extra good dinners.

   [Illustration: "AND THAT IS JUST WHAT, AS OUR BUTCHER EXPLAINS, THE

   If Merdle had told me a friend would be here,
   A dinner I'd get up in spite of the bills--
   I often tell butcher he's wonderful dear--
   He says every calf that a butcher now kills,
   Will cost near as much as the price of a steer,
   Before all the banks in their discount expanded
   And flooded the country with 'lamp-black and rags,'
   Which poor men has ruined and shipwrecked and stranded
   On Poverty's billows and quick-sands and crags.

   And that is just what, as our butcher explains,
   The dickens has played with our beef and our mutton;
   But something is gained, for, with all of his pains,
   The poor man won't make of himself such a glutton.

   I'm sure if they knew what a sin 't is to eat,
   When things are all selling at extravagant prices,
   That poor folks more saving would be of their meat,
   And learn by example how little suffices.

   I wish they could see for themselves what a table--
   What examples we set to the laboring poor,
   In prudence, and saving, in those who are able
   To live like a king and his court on a tour.

   I feel, I acknowledge, sometimes quite dejected
   To think, as it happens with you here today,
   To drop in so sudden and quite unexpected,
   How poor we are living some people will say.

Mrs. Merdle goes to Market.

   With prices outrageous they charge now for meat,
   And servants so worthless are every day growing,
   I wonder we get half enough now to eat,
   And shouldn't if 't want for the fact of my going
   To market to cheapen potatoes and beef,
   And talk to the butchers about their abuses,
   And listen to stories beyond our belief,
   They tell while they cheat us, by way of excuses.

   And grocers--do tell us--is 't legal to charge
   Such prices for sugar, and butter, and flour?

   Oh, why don't the Mayor in his wisdom enlarge
   Both weight and measure as he does 'doubtful power?'

The Dinner-bell Rings.

   Mrs. Merdle Describes the Sufferings of Dyspepsia and its Remedy.

   But come, now, I hear by the sound of the ringing
   That dinner is ready; and time none to spare
   To finish our eating in time for the singing
   At Niblo's; or at Burton's drop in for a stare.

   To 'kill time' the object, whatever the source is,
   And that is the reason we sit at the table
   And call for our dinner in slow-coming courses,
   To kill, while we eat, all the time we are able.

   Though little, I told you, that's worthy your taste
   You'll find on our table, pray don't think us mean--
   Your welcome is ample--that's better than waste--
   Oh! here comes the soup in a silver tureen--
   'Tis mock turtle too--so good for digestion:
   That kills me by inches, the wretched complaint
   Dyspepsia--to cure which, I take by suggestion
   Port-wine in the soup, when I feel slightly faint.

The Dinner Table Talk.

   Now soup, if you like made of beef very nice,
   You'll find this the next thing to the height of perfection;
   And eaten with ketchup, or thickened with rice,
   Will suit you I know, if this is your selection.

   My own disposition to this one inclines,
   But dreadful dyspepsia destroys all the pleasure
   Of dinner, except it's well tinctured with wines
   Which plan I adopt as a health-giving measure.

   A table well ordered, well furnished, and neat,
   No wonder our nature for ever is tempting;
   And I'd like to know if Mahomet could beat
   Its pleasures--dyspepsia for ever exempting--
   With all that he promised in paradise gained,
   With Houris attendant in place of the churls
   With which we are worried, tormented, and pained--
   The colored men servants, or green Irish girls.

Mrs. Merdle doubts Paradise's Uneating Pleasure.

   Though Houris are handsome, though lovely the place--
   More lovely perhaps than our own country seat--
   I never could see, in the light of free grace
   What pleasure they have there with nothing to eat.

   With nothing to wear, if the climate is suiting,
   We might get along I am sure pretty well;
   No washing and starching and crimping and fluting,
   No muslin and laces and trouble of dressing, they tell,
   E'er troubles the women, or bothers the men,
   Who soon grow accustomed, as people do here,
   To fashions prevailing, and things that they ken;
   To dresses fore-shortened where bosoms appear;
   To bonnets that show but a rose in the wearing;
   To dresses that sweep like a besom the street;
   To dresses so gauzy the hoops through are seen;
   To shoes quite as gauzy to cover the feet;
   But watch how a man here goes raving and swearing,
   At wife and all hands, if they've nothing to eat!

Mrs. Merdle Discourseth of Things Earthly.

   No matter how costly or flimsy her dresses,
   The angel you honor with your kind attentions;
   No matter how foolish her wardrobe inventions,
   You love her, or say so, from slipper to tresses;
   But, presto! you call her the greatest of sinners,
   Though smiling, she treats you to badly cooked dinners;
   Which proves where the seat is of men's best affections,
   With which 'pon their honor they extol us as wives,
   And treat us at dinner with sagest reflections,
   Of beauty, and duty we owe all our lives
   To you, noble lords, of this mundane creation;
   Which, judging from some things they tell us,
   Was made for the creatures of this trading nation,
   Who make it a business to buy us and sell us,
   Like 'Erie,' or 'Central,' or other such stocks;
   With care, when they bid for a very 'Miss Nancy,'
   That she's of a stock that the brokers call 'fancy,'
   Or else has a pocket 'chuck full of the rocks'--
   The rocks that are wrecking each day of their sailing,
   More fortunes than ever in ocean were swallowed;
   Where 'ventures' of marriage their victims impaling
   With mammon and mis'ry together have wallowed.

Mrs. Merdle Discourseth of Things Eatable.

   Now Colonel, to husband you need not be winking,
   While wiping the soup with a smile from your lips;
   I know just as well as he does how you're thinking
   The soup is as tasteless as though made of chips.

   You need not deny it, and swear that no better
   Concocted was ever in London or Paris;
   Remember the praises you gave in your letter
   Of cooking and eating you wrote to Miss Harris.

   Now, Colonel, don't offer a word more to flatter--
   The soup may be so-so, but wait for the meat;
   And after you've seen the last dish, plate, or platter,
   You'll own then, I'm certain, we've nothing to eat--
   That is compared, as described to Miss Harris,
   With all the best tables you eat at in Paris.

Mrs. Merdle Ordereth the Second Course.

   Come, John, Jane, and Susan, the soup take away,
   And bring in the turbot, the sheep's head and bass;
   And have you got lobster and salad to-day?
   And see that the celery's all right in the glass.

   Now fish--Colonel Dinewell, which fish will you try?
   And how shall I dress it to suit your nice taste?
   For sauce to the fish is as love to the sigh,
   Imperfect, it's worthless, and both prove a waste.

Mrs. Merdle Discourseth of Hygiene and Fish Sauce.

   But this is concocted by rules so complete;
   Though piquant, is healthy and easy digested;
   And if you will note it as slowly we eat,
   The contents I'll give for our friends interested.

   Imprimus: in fish stock, an onion we stew,
   And anchovy essence two spoonfuls we add;
   With butter, horse-radish, and lemons a few;
   Mushrooms, too, in ketchup is not very bad;
   And pickle of walnuts with onions chopped fine,
   To which there is added some old sherry wine.

   My doctor, so queer, when I suffer distress,
   Inquires what I've latterly foolishly eaten,
   And swears that to swallow this 'horrible mess,'
   Would entitle a dog like a dog to be beaten.

   But la! such a doctor knows nothing of women's complaints,
   And talks Latin nonsense about 'regular diet;'
   And thinks that us mortals--should live more like saints,
   On moonshine and nonsense of a heavenly quiet.

   He says that a woman of my plaint complaining,
   If she was a woman at all half discreet,
   Would shudder to think every day she is maiming
   Her stomach with trash, and such stuff as we eat!

Mrs. Merdle Describeth her Doctor.

   But he's an old fogy, you may know by this sign--
   He don't smoke tobacco, drink lager or wine;
   And swears that rich gravy, roast pork or chop,
   Would kill a big ostrich, if stuffed in his crop.

   He told me one day 'bout the pain in my feet,
   'I see what 't is ails you--you've nothing to eat!'

   Provoking, absurd, foolish hint that my health
   Was injured by eating what station and wealth
   And fashion give right for my sex to enjoy
   In spite of the doctors we choose to employ.

Mrs. Merdle Discourseth again on Dinner.

   But you are not eating, and I fear that the fish,
   Or else 't is the gravy's not done to your wish.

   You're starving while waiting for something to eat--
   Thank fortune I told you how poorly we live--
   I hope John now will give us a piece of roast meat,
   Or else such a dinner you'd never forgive.

   Why yes, Merdle, look, there is beef on that dish--
   Jane Hill, don't you see, there's a plate here to shift--
   That John is now bringing--'t is all he can lift--
   And Colonel, that turkey, you know 't is my wish--
   You know that Excelsior's your motto in carving--
   As nothing more now we shall have on the table
   "We'll eat and give thanks this day that we're able
   To keep our poor bodies entirely from starving.

   Now Susan's this all that you've been able to pick up?
   Oh, no! there's a ham, and it's done to a turn
   So nice, that the nose of a Jew needn't stick up;
   And a tongue--well, a tongue I never could spurn;
   It's nice while the wine at our leisure we sip;
   And good with a cracker in wine we can dip.

   [Illustration: "MY APPETITE'S NONE OF THE BEST AND SO I MUST PAMPER
   THE DELICATE THING. AND TICKLE A FANCY THAT'S VERY CAPRICIOUS WITH
   BITS OF A TURKEY, THE BREAST OR THE WING. WITH KIRF VERY TENDER AND

Mrs. Merdle Accepteth of a slight Dinner, suitable for a Woman suffering with Dyspepsia.

   Some turkey? why yes--the least mite will suffice;
   A side bone and dressing and bit of the breast;
   The tip of the rump--that's it--and one o' the fli's--
   In spite of the doctor: my appetite's none of the best,
   And so I must pamper the delicate thing,
   And tickle a fancy that's very capricious
   With bits of a turkey, the breast or the wing,
   With beef very tender, and gravy delicious.

   Some beef now? I thank you, not any at present;
   I'll nibble a little at what I have got,
   And wish for a duck, or a grouse, or a pheasant,
   Though none of them come for a wish, in the pot.

Mrs. Merdle Discourseth of Wishes and her Sufferings.

   'If wishes were horses'--I've heard when a girl--
   'If wishes were horses, the beggars would ride'--
   If wishes were pheasants, I'd wish with a skirl
   Till cooked ones came flying and sat by my side.

   A fig, then, for doctors, their tinctures and drugs;
   Good eating would cure me, with plenty of game;
   And as for pill boxes, and bottles, and jugs,
   I wouldn't know one, when I saw it, by name.

   Oh, dear! such a load now my stomach oppresses,
   While eating these trifles, attempting to dine--
   I'm sure 'taint the turkey--it must be my dresses--
   And if so 't will ease them to sip sherry wine.

   'Tis sad, though, to be such a sad invalid--
   Dear me, Colonel Dinewell, you've done eating meat--
   Your doctor, like mine, I hope hasn't forbid,
   That you shouldn't have, as I do, so little to eat.
   Ah! well then, I see, though I've hardly begun,
   The meats and the solids must go right away;
   So bring in the pudding, if Susan's got one,
   Which will for a while one's appetite stay.

Mrs. Merdle Discourseth of Pudding.

   A pudding! why yes, as I live, too, it's plum;
   So plain, Susan makes them on purpose for me
   I never refuse, when the plum puddings come,
   To finish my dinner, if finished 't can be
   On things unsubstantial, like puddings and pies,
   So made up of suet, and currants, and flour,
   Like this one before us, to get up the size,
   And stirred up and beaten with eggs by the hour,
   With bread crumbs, and citron, and small piece of mace;
   With nutmeg, and cinnamon, and sugar, and milk,
   And" currants, and raisins, and spices so race,
   And what else I know not of things of that ilk.

   The whole after cooking six hours at the least,
   When thus well compounded with delicate skill,
   With wine sauce is eaten, to finish the feast,
   And suits the digestion of ladies quite ill,
   Who suffer as I do, from having bad cooks,
   And very weak stomachs, and food that near kills 'em;
   And then such a sight of bad rules in the books
   From contents to finis, to cure one that fills 'em.

   [Illustration: "FOR NOTHING TO CURE WITH IS USED BUT COLD WATER: AND

   There's one of all others so much recommended
   To cure every ill of old Eve's every daughter,
   With nothing or next to't, for medicine expended,
   For nothing to cure with is used but cold water.

   And what with the bathing, and washing, and scrubbing;
   The packing, and sweating, and using the sheet;
   The shower bath, and douche bath, and all sorts of rubbing;
   And literally nothing but brown bread to eat,
   No wonder the patient accepts of the lure,
   To escape such a ducking, acknowledged a cure.

   But Lord, what a skein I have made of my yarn,
   While Susan's arranging and changing the plates,
   And running all round old Robin Hood's barn,
   Like puzzles at school that we made on our slates;
   But talking of puzzles, no one that we made,
   While playing the fool we played as a trade,
   When childhood and folly joined hands at the schools,
   Could equal the pranks of these cold-water fools.

   Yes, yes, Mr. Merdle, I knew by the smelling
   The pudding was ready, without any telling;
   So Colonel, I'll help you a delicate slice--
   For nothing, I'm sure, like a dinner you've eaten--
   And afterwards follow with jelly and ice,
   So pleasant while waiting to cool off the heat on;
   And then with a syllabub, comfit, or cream,
   Our dessert of almonds and raisins we'll nibble,
   Till coffee comes in to revive with it's steam,
   When cakes in its fragrance we'll leisurely dibble.

   I'm sure after all it's a terrible bore
   To labor so hard as we do for our victuals;
   I envy the women that beg at the door,
   Or hire out for wages to handle your kettles,
   And wash, bake, and iron, and do nothing but cooking,
   So rugged and healthy, and often good looking:
   The doctor has told me except when they're mothers,
   They never take tincture, or rhubarb, or pill,
   And swears the profession if there were no others,
   Their patients would use up, and starve out and kill.

   I'm sure I don't see how that makes them exempt
   From all sorts of sickness and woman's complaints,
   With nothing to hinder if appetite tempt
   From eating or drinking as happy as saints.

   Oh Lord, now, this pudding so delicate made,
   And gravy I'm sure with nothing that's rich in,
   That one of those women who beg as a trade,
   The whole in one stomach could leisurely pitch in,
   Is now in my own so terribly painful in feeling,
   Its calls for relief are most loudly appealing.

Mrs. Merdle Discourseth of the necessity of good Wine and other Matters.

   So while we are eating the fruits of the vine,
   Don't let us forget such a health giving juice,
   As Champagne, or Sherbet, or other good wine,
   Nor sin by neglecting its 'temperate use.'

   Now Sherbet, my husband extols to the skies,
   With me though, my stomach is weak and won't bear it:
   And Sherry, though sometimes affecting my eyes,
   A bottle with pleasure we'll open and share it.

   Ha, ha, well-a-day--what a queer world to live in,
   If one were contented on little to dine,
   We need not be longing another to be in,
   Where women, they tell us, exist without wine;
   Where husbands are happy and women content;
   Where dresses, though gauzy, are fit for the street;
   Where no one is wretched with purses unbent,
   With nothing to wear and nothing to eat.

   Where women no longer are treated la Turk,
   Where husbands descended from Saxon or Norman,
   For women when sickly are willing to work,
   And not long for Utah and pleasures la Mormon--
   Where men freely marry and live with their wives,
   And not live as you do, mon Colonel, so single.

   Such wretched and dinnerless bachelor lives;
   You don't know the pleasure there is in the tingle
   Of ears pricked by lectures, la curtain, au Caudle,
   Or noise of young Dinewells beginning to toddle;
   While plodding all day with your paper and quills,
   And copy, and proof sheets, and work for the printer,
   Pray what do you know of the housekeeper's bills,
   And other such 'pleasures of hope' for the winter?

   You men, selfish creatures, think all of the care
   Of living and keeping yourselves in existence,
   Is due to your own daily labor, and share,
   From breakfast to dinner of business persistance;
   While woman is either a plaything or drudge,
   According to station of wealth or position,
   Which men help along with a word or a nudge
   To heaven high up or low down to perdition.

   But what was I saying of a world free from care,
   Of eating and drinking and dresses to wear?

   Where women by husbands are never tormented,
   And never asked money where husbands dissented?
   And never see others, their rivals, in fashion ahead,
   And never have doctors--a woman's great dread--
   And nothing, I hope, like my own indigestion,
   To torment and starve them, as this one does me,
   And keep them from sipping--forgive the suggestion--
   The nectar etherial they drink for their tea.

Mrs. Merdle Suggesteth that Dinner being finished, the Gentlement will Smoke. In the meantime, she Discourseth.

   "Now Merdle--now Colonel--I know you are waiting.
   And thinking my talking to eating's a bar,
   Still hoping, by tasting, my appetite sating,
   Will give you the license to smoke a cigar.

   Well then, I've done now, and hope too you've dined,
   As well as down town where you dine for a shilling,
   At Taylor's, or Thompson's, or one of the kind,
   Where mortals are flocking each day for their filling;
   Or else at the Astor where bachelors quarter,
   Where port holes for windows give light to the room,
   Far out of the region of Eve's every daughter,
   So high they are stuck up away toward the moon.

   Though as for the 'stuck up' no walls built of brick,
   Or granite, or marble, or dirty red sand,
   Could stick up a man who himself's but a stick,
   An inch above where he would naturally stand.

   To witness the truth of this final assertion,
   I call you to witness the sticks at the door,
   Where they make it a daily, a 'manly' diversion,
   To ogle each woman, and sometimes do more,
   Who passes the hotel that's named by a saint,
   Where boorish bad manners give room for complaint.

   Where idlers and loafers, with gamblers a few,
   Make up for the nonce the St. Nicholas crew.

   The 'outside barbarians,' I freely confess,
   Who ogle our faces and ogle our dress,
   Who spit where we walk as dirty a puddle
   As bipeds can make when their brains are 'a muddle,'
   Do not prove the inside is as dirty as they are,
   Or else the gods help all the ladies who stay there.

   Why any prefer in a hotel to stay,
   Instead of a house of their choosing to own,
   Is just to avoid all the trouble, they say,
   That servants to give us are certainly prone,
   I'm sure if a tyranny more terrible prevails,
   In Austria or other despotic domain,
   My memory where most certainly fails,
   That servants and milliners over us gain,
   Just here in New York, and the more is the pity,
   Where Wood is the Mogul that governs the city.

Mrs. Merdle, having "Nibbled a Little" for two Hours at Dinner, retireth from the Table unsatisfied.

   "Impatient--oh yes--just the way with you men!

   I never have time to half finish my eating
   Ere Merdle is done; such a fidget is then,
   He'd starve me I think rather 'n miss of a meeting
   Where brokers preside o'er the fate of the stocks,
   As Pales presided o'er shepherds and flocks.

   Now while you are smoking--what nonsense and folly--
   I'll go to my room.--don't say No, for I must--
   Put on a new dress, with assistance of Molly,
   And then with a little strong tea and a crust,
   My strength I may hope for a walk will be able
   As far as the gate, and a very short ride,
   To give me a relish again for the table--
   What else do we live for in this world beside?"

The Poet Moralizeth--He Discourseth to those who Gorge and Complain.

   Oh! Kitty Malone--Mrs. Merdle 'tis now--
   Was there ever on earth than this, greater folly?

   Still gorging, while groaning, and swearing a vow,
   That yours is a case of most sad melancholy.

   With table that Croesus never had but might covet,
   You live but to eat and to eat 'cause you love it;
   And yet while you swallow great sirloins of meat
   Complain like a beggar of nothing to eat.

He Discourseth of the Wherefore of Bachelorism.

   "What else do we live for in this world beside?"

   Alas! 't is the question of ten times a day,
   That comes on the wind, or that floats on the tide,
   And creeps in the houses where men go to pray.

   What else do we live for than get such a wife
   As this of the banker of our faint description?

   What else is the end of our fashionable life
   From which men escape as they would from conscription?

   What else is the reason so few natives marry,
   Than this, that extravagance leads on to ruin?

   It is because few men are able to carry
   The load of this baking and roasting and stewing,
   Of buying and wasting extravagant meat,
   Where women are dying of "nothing to eat;"
   Where men in corruption so rapidly tending,
   In morals and wealth in bankruptcy ending.

   That forging and stealing and breaches of trust,
   And ten thousand arts of the confidence game,
   And follies uncounted of men "on a bust,"
   Are follies and crimes of this age to our shame,
   Till angels who witness the folly so wide
   Extended from palace to farm-house and cot,
   Might wonder if mortals life's objects forgot,
   Or Merdle's position is man's common lot?

He Discourseth of What some Mortals Live for.

   "What else do they live for in this world beside?"

   What else but for Kittys or one of the same,
   Do mothers their daughters at schools give the touch
   That leaves them to live as a wife but in name
   While position and fashion they frantically clutch.

   What else do they live for, our girls so refined,
   So forward, precocious, and gifted at ten
   They are flirting and courting and things of the kind,
   That never came under our grandmother's ken.

   At fifteen so dressed up, and hooped up, I ween,
   They're mothers full often before they're sixteen,
   And fading and dowdy and sickly at twenty,
   With one boy in trowsers and two girls in laces
   Complaining of starving while dying of plenty
   The fate is of ladies in fashionable places.

He Imploreth Mercy upon those condemned with fashionable folly to Marry, and Illustrateth their Condition.

   Now heaven in mercy be kind to the wretch,
   Who marries for money or fashion or folly;
   He'd better accept of the noose of Jack Ketch
   Than such a "help-meet;" or at once marry Dolly
   The cook, or with Bridget, the maid of the broom;
   With one he'd be sure to get coffee and meat,
   And never hear whining of nothing to eat,
   And 't other would make up his bed and his room;
   And if he was blest with a child now and then,
   As happens sometimes with your fashionable wives,
   Who're coupled to bipeds, in nature called men,
   He'd need no insurance to warrant their lives;
   And need no expense of a grand "bridal tour,"
   Or visit each season at "watering places,"
   Where fashion at people well known to be poor,
   In money or station, will make ugly faces;
   Where women, though married, with roues will flirt;
   Where widows, though widows in fresh sable weeds,
   Spread nets that entangle like old Nessus' shirt
   And finish with Burdell and Cunningham deeds;
   Where daughters when fading are taken to spend
   A month at the springs, or a week in salt water;
   Where bachelors flirting on Ellen attend,
   Are whispered by mamma, "engaged to my daughter."

He Imploreth Merry for other Unfortunate Beings.

   Now heaven in mercy be kind to the wretches
   Who stay on the earth like this Mrs. Merdle!

   More wretched than ever a wretch on the hurdle
   Was drawn by all England's official Jack Ketches;
   More wretched, if can be, at church on a Sunday
   A woman, who worships, than God, more her dress,
   Would be if she heard or e'en thought Mrs. Grundy
   Would sneer at the set of a bonnet or tress;
   Or say that she thought Miss Freelove's new pattern
   Of laces, or collars, or yard flowing sleeves,
   Looked more like the dress of a real Miss Slattern
   And not "so becoming"'s the first one of Eve's.

He Discourseth of a Common Prayer.

   Yet look at the thousands whose every day prayer,
   Far more than their own or their neighbor's salvation,
   Absorbs every thought, every dream, and all care,
   "To eat or to wear, is anything new in creation?"

He Discourseth of Trouble and Sorrow.

   What else do they live for? They live but for this;
   And nothing but this ever troubles their thinking;
   Rich eating, rich dressing, and flirting's their bliss,
   And life's better purposes constantly blinking.

   Their life's but a tissue of trouble and sorrow
   Of what is the fashion or will be to-morrow.

He Moralizeth upon what a Day may Bring forth.

   "To-morrow!" who'll warrant to-morrow we'll see?

   Who'll care the next day or day after for dinner?

   Or what the next fashion of new dress will be?

   Or who Mrs. Grundy will say is the winner?

   Having reached Thirtysixthly, the Author is
   about to Make the "Application," and Pray
   forgiveness, but concludes by remaining Incog.

   "Who'll care for, to-morrow, for this bit of scandal,
   With malice prepense that a cynic has written?

   (That's what they will say when the poem they handle,
   Who feel 'tis themselves whom the mad dog has bitten;
   And wish he was treated as dogs with the rabies
   Are treated, to stop his unmannerly bark;
   Or packed off to bed as you do naughty babies,
   To sleep, or be frightened all alone in the dark.)

   Who'll care? why the author of this ugly poem--
   He'll care--for a reason--that all of you read it--
   He'll care for the cash you'll give--Oh! how he needs it--
   (Oh! what would you give, ladies dear, just to know him?--)

   But that, by your leave, by the aid of the elf
   The printer employs, he will keep to himself.

   He knows, if you knew him, what fate he would meet;
   At every table you'd give him--nothing to eat.

   Excuse then, dear ladies, the author his shyness,
   And accept his conge at the end of this

   FINIS.MORE BEASTS FOR WORSE CHILDREN

          MORE BEASTS
          (For WORSE CHILDREN)

          VERSES
          BY
          H.B.

          PICTURES
          BY
          B.T.B.

          LONDON:
          DUCKWORTH AND CO.
          3 HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

DEDICATION.

          To
          Miss ALICE WOLCOTT BRINLEY,
          Of Philadelphia.

MORE BEASTS

FOR WORSE CHILDREN

INTRODUCTION

          The parents of the learned child
              (His father and his mother)
          Were utterly aghast to note
          The facts he would at random quote
          On creatures curious, rare and wild;
              And wondering, asked each other:

              "An idle little child like this,
                How is it that he knows
              What years of close analysis
                Are powerless to disclose?

          Our brains are trained, our books are big,
                And yet we always fail
            To answer why the Guinea-pig
              Is born without a tail.

          Or why the Wanderoo[A] should rant
            In wild, unmeaning rhymes,
          Whereas the Indian Elephant
            Will only read _The Times_.

          Perhaps he found a way to slip
              Unnoticed to the Zoo,
          And gave the Pachyderm a tip,
              Or pumped the Wanderoo.

          Or even by an artful plan
              Deceived our watchful eyes,
          And interviewed the Pelican,
              Who is extremely wise."

          "Oh! no," said he, in humble tone,
            With shy but conscious look,
          "Such facts I never could have known
            But for this little book."

The Python

          A Python I should not advise,--
          It needs a doctor for its eyes,
          And has the measles yearly.

          However, if you feel inclined
          To get one (to improve your mind,
          And not from fashion merely),
          Allow no music near its cage;
          And when it flies into a rage
          Chastise it, most severely.

          I had an aunt in Yucatan
          Who bought a Python from a man
              And kept it for a pet.
          She died, because she never knew
          These simple little rules and few;--

          The Snake is living yet.

The Welsh Mutton

          The Cambrian Welsh or Mountain Sheep
            Is of the Ovine race,
          His conversation is not deep,
            But then--observe his face!

The Porcupine

          What! would you slap the Porcupine?
            Unhappy child--desist!
          Alas! that any friend of mine

          To strike the meanest and the least
              Of creatures is a sin,
          How much more bad to beat a beast
            With prickles on its skin.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] Sometimes called the "Lion-tailed or tufted Baboon of Ceylon."

[B] From [Greek: tupto]=I strike; [Greek: phileo]=I love; one that loves
to strike. The word is not found in classical Greek, nor does it occur
among the writers of the Renaissance--nor anywhere else.

The Scorpion

          The Scorpion is as black as soot,
              He dearly loves to bite;
          He is a most unpleasant brute
              To find in bed, at night.

The Crocodile

          Whatever our faults, we can always engage
          That no fancy or fable shall sully our page,
            So take note of what follows, I beg.
          This creature so grand and august in its age,
            In its youth is hatched out of an egg.

          And oft in some far Coptic town
          The Missionary sits him down
              To breakfast by the Nile:
          The heart beneath his priestly gown
              Is innocent of guile;

          When suddenly the rigid frown
          Of Panic is observed to drown
            His customary smile.

          Why does he start and leap amain,

          And scour the sandy Libyan plain

          Like one that wants to catch a train,

          Or wrestles with internal pain?

          Because he finds his egg contain--
          Green, hungry, horrible and plain--
            An Infant Crocodile.

The Vulture

          The Vulture eats between his meals,
            And that's the reason why
          He very, very rarely feels
              As well as you and I.

          His eye is dull, his head is bald,
              His neck is growing thinner.
          Oh! what a lesson for us all
              To only eat at dinner!

The Bison

          The Bison is vain, and (I write it with pain)
            The Door-mat you see on his head

          Is not, as some learned professors maintain,
          The opulent growth of a genius' brain;

          But is sewn on with needle and thread.

The Viper

          Yet another great truth I record in my verse,
          That some Vipers are venomous, some the reverse;
            A fact you may prove if you try,

          By procuring two Vipers, and letting them bite;

          With the _first_ you are only the worse for a fright,

          But after the _second_ you die.

The Llama

          The Llama is a woolly sort of fleecy hairy goat,
          With an indolent expression and an undulating throat
            Like an unsuccessful literary man.

          And I know the place he lives in (or at least--I think I do)
          It is Ecuador, Brazil or Chili--possibly Peru;
                You must find it in the Atlas if you can.

          The Llama of the Pampasses you never should confound
          (In spite of a deceptive similarity of sound)
                With the Lhama who is Lord of Turkestan.

          For the former is a beautiful and valuable beast,
          But the latter is not lovable nor useful in the least;
          And the Ruminant is preferable surely to the Priest
          Who battens on the woful superstitions of the East,
            The Mongol of the Monastery of Shan.

The Chamois

          The Chamois inhabits
          Lucerne, where his habits
              (Though why I have not an idea-r)
          Give him sudden short spasms
          On the brink of deep chasms,
              And he lives in perpetual fear.

The Frozen Mammoth

          This Creature, though rare, is still found to the East
          Of the Northern Siberian Zone.

          It is known to the whole of that primitive group
          That the carcass will furnish an excellent soup,
              Though the cooking it offers one drawback at least
                (Of a serious nature I own):

          If the skin be _but punctured_ before it is boiled,
          Your confection is wholly and utterly spoiled.

          And hence (on account of the size of the beast)
            The dainty is nearly unknown.

The Microbe

          The Microbe is so very small
          You cannot make him out at all,
          But many sanguine people hope
          To see him through a microscope.
          His jointed tongue that lies beneath
          A hundred curious rows of teeth;
          His seven tufted tails with lots
          Of lovely pink and purple spots,

          On each of which a pattern stands,
          Composed of forty separate bands;
          His eyebrows of a tender green;
          All these have never yet been seen--
          But Scientists, who ought to know,
          Assure us that they must be so. . . .
          Oh! let us never, never doubt
          What nobody is sure about!generously made available by Internet Archive/American Libraries
(http://www.archive.org/details/americana)

Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 22529-h.htm or 22529-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/2/2/5/2/22529/22529-h/22529-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/2/2/5/2/22529/22529-h.zip)

      Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive/American Libraries. See
      http://www.archive.org/details/twelvelaboursofh00londiala

THE
TWELVE LABOURS
OF
_HERCULES_,
SON OF
_JUPITER & ALCMENA_.

LONDON:

Published by Didier and Tebbett, at the
Juvenile Library of English, French,
and Italian Books, and Repository
of Instructive Games, No. 75,
St. James's Street.
1808.
London.

Published by Didier & Tebbett, 75, St. James' Street;

Price, Plain 1s. Coloured 1s. 6d.

The Nemaean Lion.

By Juno's hate urged on, Alcmena's Son,
At sixteen years his noble toils begun.
Nemaea's dreadful Lion first he sought,
The savage slew & to Eurystheus brought,
From his huge sides his shaggy spoils he tore,
Around him threw, & e'er in triumph wore.

The Lernaean Hydra.

On Lerna's pest th' undaunted Hero rushes,
With massy club her hundred heads he crushes,
In vain. One crush'd, two hissing heads arise,
Till good Iolas to each wound applies
The burning brand. Dipt in the Hydra's gall,
His arrows slightest wound is death to all.

The Maenalaean Stag.

A Stag with horns of gold and feet of brass,
On Maenalus bounds o'er th'unbending grass,
To Dian sacred, this he's doom'd to bring,
Unhurt into the presence of the King,
Forbid to wound, how take a Stag so fleet?
A twelvemonth's end scarce saw the task complete.

The Erymanthian Boar.

To Erymanthus next his course is bent,
To seize the Boar by incensed Dian sent,
The fell destroyer bound he o'er him flings,
And unto scared Eurystheus quickly brings,
The trembling Tyrant shrinks aghast with dread,
And in his brazen Vessel hides his coward head.

The Stables of Augeas.

To cleanse the Augean Stables now he's sped,
Where thirty years three thousand Oxen fed;
The task for man too great. A river's course
He turn'd, & thro' the stables urged its force,
The tide resistless rolls, and in one day
The gather'd filth of years is swept away.

The Stymphalides.

The Lake Stymphalus by his arm was freed,
From those dire birds on human flesh who feed,
By Pallas' aid the dreadful race subdued,
No more its banks with whitening bones are strew'd.
Honour'd by all mankind he now returns,
But still Eurystheus' envious hatred burns.

The Cretan Bull.

A furious Bull with nostrils breathing fire,
To punish Minos sent by Neptune's ire,
Roams wild in vengeance thro' his wide domains,
And death & terror spreads o'er Crete's fair plains;
But soon the bellowing beast alive he caught,
And vainly struggling to Eurystheus brought.

Diomedes and his Horses.

Fell Diomed, whose horses fat with gore,
His subjects bodies in their mangers tore,
He next o'erthrew. And as old authors say,
The Tyrant gave to his own steeds a prey,
On Mount Olympus rent by savage beasts,
No more the horses make on man their horrid feasts.

The Amazon Hippolite.

By Fate constrain'd Eurystheus to obey,
The matchless Hero now must bend his way,
To gain the golden girdle which adorns
The Queen of Amazons. Who proudly scorns
To yield, and in her warriors doth confide--
But vanquish'd she becomes great Theseus' bride.

Geryon.

A Giant King in Gades once did keep,
(Unlike their gentle race) carnivorous sheep,
The triple monster slain, amidst his rocks
He left to birds a prey, and seiz'd his flocks,
Which by Eurystheus' order brought away
He unto Argos safely did convey.

Cerberus.

In fetters Hercules fierce Cerberus tied,
And took him trembling from grim Pluto's side,
From realms of darkness drag'd away to light,
The yelling monster sicken'd at the sight,
And from his jaws the foam which fell to earth,
Unto the poisonous Aconite gave birth.

The Hesperides.

To crown his deeds, so wondrous & so great,
Upon his shoulders vast Olympus' weight
He bore, while Atlas did the apples bring,
Which bridal Juno gave to Heaven's dread King.
And now the dragon guarded apples won,
The Godlike Hero, saw his Labours done.The Mythological Zoo

By

Oliver Herford

New York - Charles Scribner's Sons

Copyright, 1912, by Oliver Herford

To

Elwyn Barron

With Affectionate Regard

Contents

                   Page

The Mythological Zoo

Medusa

How did Medusa do her hair?
The question fills me with despair.
It must have caused her sore distress
That head of curling snakes to dress.
Whenever after endless toil
She coaxed it finally to coil,
The music of a Passing Band
Would cause each separate hair to stand
On end and sway and writhe and spit,--
She couldn't "do a thing with it."
And, being woman and aware
Of such disaster to her hair,
What _could_ she do but petrify
All whom she met, with freezing eye?

The Siren

The Siren may be said to be
The Chorus-Lady of the Sea;
Tho' Mermaids claim her as their kin,
Instead of fishy tail and fin
Two shapely feet rejoice the view
(With all that appertains thereto).
When to these other charms we add
A voice that drives the hearer mad,
Who will dispute her claim to be
The Chorus-Lady of the Sea?

The Dolphin

The Dolphin was, if you should wish
To call him so,--the King of Fish.
Though having neither gills nor scales,
His title _should be_ Prince of Whales.
While too small waisted to provide
A Jonah with a Berth Inside,
The Dolphin has been known to pack
A Drowning Sailor on his back
And bear him safely into port,--
He was a Taxi-whale, in short.

The Cockatrice

If you will listen to advice
You will avoid the Cockatrice--
A caution I need hardly say
Wholly superfluous to-day.
Yet had you lived when they were rife
Such warning might have saved your life.
To meet the Cockatrice's eye
Means certain death--and that is why
When I its features here portray
I make it look the other way.
O Cockatrice! were you so mean
What must the _Hen_atrice have been!

Cerberus

Dear Reader, should you chance to go
To Hades, do not fail to throw
A "Sop to Cerberus" at the gate,
His anger to propitiate.
Don't say "Good dog!" and hope thereby
His three fierce Heads to pacify.
What though he try to be polite
And wag his Tail with all his might,
How shall one amiable Tail
Against three angry Heads prevail?
The Heads _must_ win.--What puzzles me
Is why in Hades there should be
A Watch dog; 'tis, I should surmise,
The _last_ place one would burglarize.

The Sphinx

She was half Lady and half cat--
What is so wonderful in that?
Half of our lady friends (so say
The other half) are _Cats_ to-day.
In Egypt she made quite a stir,
They carved huge Images of her.
Riddles she asked of all she met
And all who answered wrong, she ate.
When Oedipus her riddle solved
The minx--I mean the Sphinx--dissolved
In tears. What is there, when one thinks,
So wonderful about the Sphinx?

The Sea Serpent

O wondrous worm that won the Height
Of Fame by keeping out of sight!
Never was known on Land or Sea
Such a Colossal Modesty;
Never such arrogant pretence
Of Ostentatious Diffidence.
Celebrity whom none has seen,
Save some Post Prandial Marine,
No magazine can reproduce
Your Photograph.--Oh, what's the use
Of doing things when one may be
So Famous a Nonentity!

The Salamander

The Salamander made his bed
Among the glowing embers red.
A Fiery Furnace, to his mind,
Hygiene and Luxury combined.
He was, if I may put it so,
A Saurian Abednigo.
He loved to climb with nimble ease
The branches of the Gas-log Trees
Where oft on chilly winter nights
He rose to dizzy Fahrenheits.
Believers in Soul Transmigration
See in him the Re-incarnation
Of those Sad Plagues of summer, who
Ask, "Is it hot enough for you?"

The Jinn

To call a Jinn the only thing
One needed was a magic ring.
You rubbed the ring and forth there came
A monster born of smoke and flame,
A thing of Vapor, Fume and Glare
Ready to waft you anywhere.
The magic Jinns of yesterday
The wand of Science now obey.
You ring, and lo! with rush and roar
The panting monster's at the door,
A thing of Vapor, Fume and Glare
Ready to take you anywhere.
What's in a name? What choice between
The Giants, Jinn and Gasolene?

The Mermaid

Although a Fishwife in a sense,
She does not barter Fish for Pence.
Fisher of Men, her Golden Nets
For foolish Sailormen she sets.
All day she combs her hair and longs
For Dimpled Feet and Curling-tongs.
All night she dreams in ocean caves
Of Low tide Shoes and Marcel Waves.
And while the Fishwife, making sales,
May sell her wares upon her scales,
The Mermaid, wonderful to tell,
Must wear her scales upon hersel'.

The Unicorn

The Unicorn 's a first-rate sort.
He helps the Lion to support
The royal arms of England's King
And keep the Throne from tottering.
I wonder what the King would do
If his supporters all withdrew?
Perhaps he'd try the Stage; a Throne
Should be an easy stepping-stone
To histrionic Heights, and who
Knows till he tries what he can do?
The King, with diligence and care,
_Might_ rise to be a Manager.

The Satyr

The Satyr lived in times remote,
A shape half-human and half-goat,
Who, having all Man's faults combined
With a Goat's nature unrefined,
Was not what you would call a bright
Example or a shining light.
Far be it from me to condone
The Satyr's sins, yet I must own
I like to think there were a few
Young Satyrs who to Heaven flew,
And when Saint Peter, thunder browed,
Seeing them, cried, "No goats allowed!"
Although the gate slammed quickly to,
Somehow their human halves got through;
Whereat the kindly saint relented,
And that's how Cherubs were invented.

The Gargoyle

The Gargoyle often makes its perch
On a cathedral or a church,
Where, mid ecclesiastic style,
It smiles an early-Gothic smile.
And while the parson, dignified,
Spouts at his weary flock inside,
The Gargoyle, from its lofty seat,
Spouts at the people in the street,
And, like the parson, seems to say
To those beneath him, "Let us spray."
I like the Gargoyle best; it plays
So cheerfully on rainy days,
While parsons (no one can deny)
Are awful dampers--when they're dry.

The Chimera

You'd think a lion or a snake
Were quite enough one's nerves to shake;
But in this classic beast we find
A lion and a snake combined,
And, just as if that weren't enough,
A goat thrown in to make it tough.
Let scientists the breed pooh! pooh!
Come with me to some Social Zoo
And hear the bearded Lion bleat
Goat-like on patent-kidded feet,
Whose "Civil leer and damning praise"
The serpent's cloven tongue betrays.
Lo! lion, goat, and snake combined!
Thus Nature doth repeat her kind.

The Ph[oe]nix

The Ph[oe]nix was, as you might say,
The burning question of his day:
The more he burned, the more he grew
Splendiferous in feathers new.
And from his ashes rising bland,
Did business at the same old stand.
But though good people went about
And talked, they could not put him out.
A wond'rous bird--indeed, they say
He is not quite extinct to-day.

The Gryphon

It chanced that Allah, looking round,
When he had made his creatures, found
Half of an Eagle and a pair
Of extra Lion legs to spare.
So, hating waste, he took some glue
And made a Gryphon of the two.
But when his handiwork he eyed,
He frowned--and it was petrified,
Doomed for all time to represent
Impatience on a monument.
Sometimes upon our path to-day
Its living counterpart will stray--
Columbia's Eagle strutting in
An awf'ly English Lion's skin,
With glass in eye and swagg'ring gait:
Behold the Gryphon up to date.

The Harpy

They certainly contrived to raise
Queer ladies in the olden days.
Either the type had not been fixed,
Or else Zoology got mixed.
I envy not primeval man
This female on the feathered plan.
We only have, I'm glad to say,
Two kinds of human bird to-day--
Women and warriors, who still
Wear feathers when dressed up to kill.

The Centaur

The Centaur led a double life:
Two natures in perpetual strife
He had, that never could agree
On what the bill-of-fare should be;
For when the man-half set his heart
On taking dinner _a la carte_,
The horse was sure to cast his vote
Unswervingly for _table d'OAT_.
A pretty sort of life to lead;
The horse in time went off his feed,
The hungry man was nigh demented,
When one day--OATMEAL was invented!

Pegasus

The ancients made no end of fuss
About a horse named Pegasus,
A famous flyer of his time,
Who often soared to heights sublime,
When backed by some poetic chap
For the Parnassus Handicap.
Alas for fame! The other day
I saw an ancient "one-hoss shay"
Stop at the Mont de Piete,
And, lo! alighting from the same,
A bard, whom I forbear to name.
Noting the poor beast's rusty hide
(The horse, I mean), methought I spied
What once were wings. Incredulous,
I cried, "Can _this_ be Pegasus!"

The Hydra

The Hydra Hercules defied,
Its nine diminished heads must hide
Before the baneful modern beast
Who has a thousand heads at least.
See how in horrid tiers they rise,
With straining ears and bulging eyes,
While, blinded by fierce calcium rays,
The trembling victim tribute pays
Of song or measure, mime or jest,
To soothe the savage Hydra's breast.
If she please not the monster's whim,
Wild scribes will tear her limb from limb;
Even if charmed, he rend the air
With hideous joy, let her beware;
For she must surely, soon or late,
Fall 'neath the hissing Hydra's hate.

The Hyppogriff

Biologists are prone to sniff
At hybrids like the Hyppogriff.
In evolution's plan, they say,
There is no place for such as they.
A horse with wings could not have more
Than two legs, and this beast had four.
Well, I for one am glad to waive
Two of his legs, his wings to save.
I'd even sell my auto--if
I had one--for a Hyppogriff.

The Minotaur

No book of monsters is complete
Without the Minotaur of Crete.
Yet should I draw him you would quail,
So in his place I draw a veil.
O stars, that from Creation's birth
Have winked at everything on earth,
Who shine where poets fear to tread,
  Relate the story in my stead!

       *       *       *       *       *

Although it's comforting to know
That Theseus slew him long ago,
_We_ need not boast, we too could do
With--well, a Theseus or two.

The End.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BOOKS BY OLIVER HERFORD

_WITH PICTURES BY THE AUTHOR_

PUBLISHED BY CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS

_WITH JOHN CECIL CLAY_

       *       *       *       *       *_The big book of_ NURSERY RHYMES

    _DEDICATION_

    _To the_
    =Youngest Baby of All=
    _with the_
    Love
    _of the_
    Compiler
    _and the_
    Artist.

    _Printed in Great Britain by Blackie & Son, Ltd., Glasgow_

    BLACKIE & SON LTD.,
    50 OLD BAILEY, LONDON, AND 17 STANHOPE STREET, GLASGOW

    BLACKIE & SON (INDIA) LTD.,
    BOMBAY; BLACKIE & SON (CANADA) LTD., TORONTO

    CURLY LOCKS

    Thou shalt sit on a
    cushion and sew a
    fine seam. And feed
    upon strawberries
    sugar and cream.

    The big book of Nursery Rhymes

    _Edited by_ Walter Jerrold

    _Illustrated by_ Charles Robinson

    _Published by_ Blackie and Son, Ltd London

_INTRODUCTION_

The very title, Nursery Rhymes, which has come to
be associated with a great body of familiar verse, is in itself
sufficient indication of the manner in which that verse has been
passed down from generation to generation. Who composed the little
pieces it is, save in a few cases, impossible to say: some are
certainly very old and were doubtless repeated thousands of times
before their first appearance in print. References to certain
favourites may be found in the pages of the dramatists of Elizabeth's
time.

Attempts are sometimes made to read into these Rhymes a deeper
significance than the obvious and simple one which has accounted for
their enduring popularity in the Nursery, but this volume has no
concern with such profound interpretations, any more than have the
little people who love the old jingles best.

The earliest known collection of Nursery Rhymes was published about
1760 by John Newbery, the first publisher who devoted his attention to
very young readers. In his book, which included songs from the plays
of Shakespeare, some of the Rhymes appeared with titles which sound
strange to our ears; thus "Ding, Dong, Bell" was called "Plato's
Song", while "There were Two Birds sat on a Stone" was "Aristotle's
Song". To each Rhyme was appended a moral maxim, as for example, to
"Is John Smith within?" is added "Knowledge is a treasure, but
practice is the key to it". Most of the Rhymes in this little Newbery
collection, amongst them "There was a little Man and he wooed a little
Maid" and "The Wise Men of Gotham", are repeated in the present volume
so far as may be in accordance with that early text. Others have been
compared with early versions in chap-books issued late in the
eighteenth century or early in the nineteenth.

Students divide our rhymes into narrative pieces, historical,
folk-lore, game rhymes, counting-out rhymes, jingles, fragments, and
so forth, but for the children for whom and by whom they are
remembered, and for whose sake they are here collected and pictured
anew, they are just--Nursery Rhymes.

    _CONTENTS_

    A AND B AND SEE
    A APPLE PIE
    A, B, C
    A CARRION CROW
    A DIFFICULT RHYME
    A DILLER, A DOLLAR
    A FALLING OUT
    A FROG HE WOULD A-WOOING GO
    ALL FOR WANT OF A NAIL
    A MEDLEY
    ANDREW
    A NICK AND A NOCK
    ANOTHER FALLING OUT
    A PIE SAT ON A PEAR-TREE
    A STRANGE SIGHT
    A SWARM OF BEES
    A VARIED SONG
    A WARNING
    A WAS AN ARCHER
    A WONDERFUL THING
    BAA, BAA, BLACK SHEEP
    BABY BUNTING
    BANDY-LEGS
    BAT, BAT
    BESSIE BELL AND MARY GRAY
    BETTY WINKLE'S PIG
    BILLY, BILLY
    BIRDS OF A FEATHER
    BLOW, WIND, BLOW!
    BLUE BELL BOY
    BOBBY SHAFT
    BOBBY SNOOKS
    BOW-WOW, SAYS THE DOG
    BOYS AND GIRLS
    BRIAN O'LIN
    BUTTONS
    BUY ME A MILKING-PAIL
    BUZ AND HUM
    CAESAR'S SONG
    CAT AND DOG
    CHARLEY, CHARLEY
    CHRISTMAS
    CLAP HANDIES
    COCK-A-DOODLE-DO
    COCK-A-DOODLE-DO
    COCK-CROW
    COCK ROBIN'S COURTING
    COFFEE AND TEA
    COMICAL FOLK
    CROSS-PATCH
    CURLY LOCKS
    CUSHY COW
    DAFFY-DOWN-DILLY
    DAME TROT
    DANCE, LITTLE BABY
    DANCE TO YOUR DADDIE
    DANTY BABY
    DEAR, DEAR!
    DICKERY, DICKERY, DARE
    DIDDLE DIDDLE DUMPLING
    DIDDLEY-DIDDLEY-DUMPTY
    DING, DONG, BELL
    DOCTOR FAUSTUS
    DOCTOR FELL
    DOCTOR FOSTER
    EARLY RISING
    ELIZABETH, ELSPETH, BETSY, AND BESS
    FEETIKINS
    FINGERS AND TOES
    FOR EVERY EVIL
    FORTUNE-TELLING BY CHERRY-STONES
    FORTUNE-TELLING BY DAISY PETALS
    GEORGY PORGY
    GOING TO ST. IVES
    GOOD-FRIDAY SONG
    GOOD KING ARTHUR
    GOOSEY, GOOSEY, GANDER
    GRACE BEFORE MEAT
    GREEN GRAVEL
    HANDY PANDY
    HARK, HARK! THE DOGS DO BARK
    HECTOR PROTECTOR
    HEY! DIDDLE, DIDDLE
    HO MY KITTEN
    HOW DO YOU DO?
    HUMPTY-DUMPTY
    HUSH-A-BYE, BABY
    HUSH-A-BYE, BABY
    HUSH, BABY, MY DOLLY
    IF
    IF WISHES WERE HORSES
    I HAD A LITTLE PONY
    I LIKE LITTLE PUSSY
    I'LL TELL YOU A STORY
    I'LL TRY
    I LOVE SIXPENCE
    IN MARBLE HALLS
    I SAW A SHIP A-SAILING
    JACK AND JILL
    JACK'S FIDDLE
    JACK JINGLE
    JACK SPRAT'S PIG
    JERRY AND JAMES AND JOHN
    JOHN COOK'S GREY MARE
    JOHNNY
    KING PIPPIN'S HALL
    LADY-BIRD, LADY-BIRD
    LAVENDER BLUE
    LENGTHENING DAYS
    LITTLE BETTY BLUE
    LITTLE BO-PEEP
    LITTLE BOY BLUE
    LITTLE GIRL, LITTLE GIRL
    LITTLE JACK HORNER
    LITTLE JENNY WREN
    LITTLE MAID
    LITTLE MISS MUFFET
    LITTLE ROBIN REDBREAST
    LITTLE TOM TUCKER
    LONDON BRIDGE
    LUCY LOCKET
    MARGERY DAW
    MARY, MARY
    MARY'S CANARY
    MASTER I HAVE
    MATTHEW, MARK, LUKE, AND JOHN
    MERRY ARE THE BELLS
    MONDAY'S CHILD
    MORE ABOUT JACK JINGLE
    MOTHER GOOSE
    MY BLACK HEN
    MY BOY TAMMIE
    MY LADY WIND
    MY MAID MARY
    NANCY DAWSON
    NANNY ETTICOAT
    NEEDLES AND PINS
    NONSENSE
    NOTHING-AT-ALL
    OF ARITHMETIC
    OF GOING TO BED
    OF PIGS
    OF THE CUTTING OF NAILS
    OF WASHING
    OLD CHAIRS TO MEND
    OLD KING COLE
    OLD MOTHER HUBBARD
    OLD WOMAN, OLD WOMAN
    ONE MISTY, MOISTY MORNING
    ONE, TWO
    ONE, TWO, THREE, AND FOUR LEGS
    OVER THE WATER TO CHARLEY
    PANCAKE DAY
    PEG
    PETER PIPER
    PETER WHITE
    POLLY FLINDERS
    POLLY, PUT THE KETTLE ON
    POOR OLD ROBINSON CRUSOE
    POOR ROBIN
    PUNCH AND JUDY
    PUSSY CAT
    PUSSYCAT MEW
    QUEEN ANNE
    RIDE A COCK-HORSE
    RIDE AWAY, RIDE AWAY
    ROBIN-A-ROBIN
    ROBIN AND RICHARD
    ROBIN AND WREN
    ROBIN, THE BOBBIN
    ROCK-A-BY, BABY
    SAINT SWITHIN'S DAY
    SAMMY SOAPSUDS
    SATURDAY, SUNDAY
    SEE, SEE!
    SEEKING A WIFE
    SHAVE A PIG
    SIMON BRODIE'S COW
    SIMPLE SIMON
    SING A SONG OF SIXPENCE
    SING IVY
    SING, SING!
    SIX LITTLE MICE
    SLEEP, BABY, SLEEP
    SNAIL
    SOLOMON GRUNDY
    ST. VALENTINE'S DAY
    SULKY SUE
    TAFFY WAS A WELSHMAN
    TELL-TALE-TIT
    TEN FINGERS
    THE BLACKSMITH
    THE BOY AND THE OWL
    THE BURNY BEE
    THE CODLIN WOMAN
    THE CROOKED SONG
    THE CUCKOO
    THE DAYS OF THE MONTH
    THE DEATH AND BURIAL OF COCK ROBIN
    THE DIVISION OF LABOUR
    THE DOVE AND THE WREN
    THE FARMER AND HIS DAUGHTER
    THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER
    THE FLY AND THE HUMBLE-BEE
    THE FOUNT OF LEARNING
    THE FOX AND THE GOOSE
    THE GIRL IN THE LANE
    THE HART
    THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT
    THE JOLLY MILLER
    THE KILKENNY CATS
    THE KING OF FRANCE
    THE LADY AND THE SWINE
    THE LATEST NEWS
    THE LIGHT-HEARTED FAIRY
    THE LION AND THE UNICORN
    THE LITTLE CLOCK
    THE LITTLE COCK SPARROW
    THE LITTLE GUINEA-PIG
    THE LITTLE HUSBAND
    THE LITTLE MAN WITH A GUN
    THE LITTLE MOPPET
    THE LITTLE MOUSE
    THE LOVING BROTHERS
    THE MAN AND HIS CALF
    THE MAN IN THE MOON
    THE MAN IN THE WILDERNESS
    THE MAN OF THESSALY
    THE MERCHANTS OF LONDON
    THE MONTHS OF THE YEAR
    THE MOUSE AND THE MILLER
    THE MOUSE RAN UP THE CLOCK
    THE NUT-TREE
    THE OBSTINATE PIG
    THE OLD WOMAN TOSSED IN A BASKET
    THE OLD WOMAN WHO LIVED IN A SHOE
    THE ORANGE STEALER
    THE OWL IN THE OAK
    THE PIPER'S COW
    THE PUMPKIN EATER
    THE QUARRELSOME KITTENS
    THE QUEEN OF HEARTS
    THE ROSE IS RED
    THE SONG OF MYSELF
    THE TAILORS AND THE SNAIL
    THE THREE KITTENS
    THE WAY TO LONDON TOWN
    THE WIND
    THE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM
    THE WOOING
    THERE WAS A BUTCHER
    THERE WAS A LITTLE BOY
    THERE WAS A LITTLE MAN
    THERE WAS A MAN
    THERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN
    THOMAS A' TATTAMUS
    THREE BLIND MICE
    THREE BRETHREN OUT OF SPAIN
    THREE CHILDREN SLIDING
    THREE JOLLY WELSHMEN
    THREE MEN IN A TUB
    THREE SHIPS
    TIT-TAT-TOE
    TOAD AND FROG
    TO BABYLON
    TO BED!
    TO MARKET
    TOMMY'S CAKE
    TOMMY TITTLEMOUSE
    TOM, THE PIPER'S SON
    TOM, TOM, THE PIPER'S SON
    TONGS
    TO THE BIRDS
    TO THE HAYFIELD
    TWINKLE, TWINKLE, LITTLE STAR
    TWO LITTLE BIRDS
    TWO LITTLE DOGS
    UP HILL AND DOWN DALE
    UP PIPPEN HILL
    WASH ME AND COMB ME
    WEE WILLIE WINKIE
    WHAT ARE LITTLE BOYS MADE OF?
    WHAT CARE I?
    WHEN I WAS A LITTLE BOY
    WHERE ARE YOU GOING?
    WING, WANG, WADDLE, OH!
    WINTER HAS COME
    YANKEE DOODLE

    "Herebe!
    ginsthe!!
    bigbo  !!!
    okofnur!!!!
    se!ryrh!ymes!"

THE QUEEN _of_ HEARTS

    The Queen of Hearts she made some tarts,
      All on a summer's day;

    The Knave of Hearts he stole those tarts,
      And took them clean away.

    The King of Hearts called for those tarts,
    And beat the Knave full sore.

    The Knave of Hearts brought back those tarts,
      And vowed he'd steal no more.

SAINT SWITHIN'S DAY

    St. Swithin's day, if thou dost rain,
    For forty days it will remain;
    St. Swithin's day, if thou be fair,
    For forty days 't will rain no more.

DANCE TO YOUR DADDIE

      Dance to your daddie,
      My bonnie laddie,
    Dance to your daddie, my bonnie lamb!
      You shall get a fishie
      On a little dishie,
    You shall get a fishie when the boat comes hame!

      Dance to your daddie,
      My bonnie laddie,
    Dance to your daddie, and to your mammie sing!
      You shall get a coatie,
      And a pair of breekies,
    You shall get a coatie when the boat comes in!

THE MAN IN THE MOON

    The man in the moon
    Came tumbling down
    And asked the way to Norwich;
    He went by the south,
    And burnt his mouth
    With eating cold pease porridge.

SIMPLE SIMON

    Simple Simon met a pie-man,
      Going to the fair;
    Says Simple Simon to the pie-man,
      "Let me taste your ware."

    Says the pie-man unto Simon,
      "First give me a penny."
    Says Simple Simon to the pie-man,
      "I have not got any."

    He went to catch a dicky-bird,
      And thought he could not fail,
    Because he had got a little salt
      To put upon his tail.

    He went to ride a spotted cow,
      That had got a little calf,
    She threw him down upon the ground,
      Which made the people laugh.

    Then Simple Simon went a-hunting,
      For to catch a hare,
    He rode a goat about the street,
      But could not find one there.

    He went for to eat honey
      Out of the mustard-pot,
    He bit his tongue until he cried,
      That was all the good he got.

    Simple Simon went a-fishing
      For to catch a whale;
    And all the water he had got
      Was in his mother's pail.

    He went to take a bird's nest,
      Was built upon a bough;
    A branch gave way, and Simon fell
      Into a dirty slough.

    He went to shoot a wild duck,
      But the wild duck flew away;
    Says Simon, "I can't hit him,
      Because he will not stay."

    Once Simon made a great Snowball,
      And brought it in to roast;
    He laid it down before the fire,
      And soon the ball was lost.

    He went to slide upon the ice,
      Before the ice would bear;
    Then he plunged in above his knees,
      Which made poor Simon stare.

    He went to try if cherries ripe
      Grew upon a thistle;
    He pricked his finger very much,
      Which made poor Simon whistle.

    He washed himself with blacking-ball,
      Because he had no soap:
    Then, then, said to his mother,
      "I'm a beauty now, I hope."

    He went for water in a sieve,
      But soon it all ran through;
    And now poor Simple Simon
      Bids you all adieu.

TOAD AND FROG

    "Croak," said the toad, "I'm hungry I think,
    To-day I've had nothing to eat or to drink;
    I'll crawl to a garden and jump through the pales,
    And there I'll dine nicely on slugs and on snails."

    "Ho, ho!" quoth the frog, "is that what you mean?
    Then I'll hop away to the next meadow stream,
    There I will drink, and eat worms and slugs too,
    And then I shall have a good dinner like you."

LITTLE JACK HORNER

      Little Jack Horner
      Sat in a corner
    Eating of Christmas pie;

      He put in his thumb,
      And pulled out a plum,
    And cried "What a good boy was I!"

THE WOOING

        There was a little man,
        Who wooed a little maid;
    And he said: "Little maid, will you wed, wed, wed?
        I have little more to say,
        So will you ay or nay
    For the least said is soonest mend-ed, ded, ded."

        Then the little maid replied:
        "Should I be your little bride,
    Pray what must we have for to eat, eat, eat?
        Will the flame that you're so rich in
        Light a fire in the kitchen?
    Or the little god of Love turn the spit, spit, spit?"

HANDY PANDY

    Handy Pandy, Jack-a-Dandy,
      Loves plum-cake and sugar-candy;
    He bought some at a grocer's shop,
      And out he came, hop, hop, hop.

THE KILKENNY CATS

    There were once two cats of Kilkenny,
    Each thought there was one cat too many;
    So they fought and they fit,
    And they scratched and they bit,
    Till, excepting their nails
    And the tips of their tails,
    Instead of two cats, there weren't any.

BLOW WIND BLOW

    Blow, wind, blow! and go, mill, go!
      That the miller may grind his corn;
    That the baker may take it, and into rolls make it,
      And send us some hot in the morn.

ONE, TWO, THREE, AND FOUR LEGS

    Two legs sat upon three legs,
    With one leg in his lap;
    In comes four legs,
    And runs away with one leg.

    Up jumps two legs,
    Catches up three legs,
    Throws it after four legs,
    And makes him bring back one leg.

BLUE BELL BOY

    I had a little boy,
      And called him Blue Bell;
    Gave him a little work,
      He did it very well.

    I bade him go upstairs
      To bring me a gold pin;
    In coal-scuttle fell he,
      Up to his little chin.

    He went to the garden
      To pick a little sage;
    He tumbled on his nose,
      And fell into a rage.

    He went to the cellar
      To draw a little beer;
    And quickly did return
      To say there was none there.

COCK-A-DOODLE-DO

    Cock-a-doodle-do!
    My dame has lost her shoe;
    My master's lost his fiddle-stick,
    And don't know what to do.

    Cock-a-doodle-do!
    What is my dame to do?
    Till master finds his fiddle-stick,
    She'll dance without her shoe.

JOHN COOK'S GREY MARE

    John Cook had a little grey mare; he, haw, hum!
    Her back stood up, and her bones they were bare; he, haw, hum!

    John Cook was riding up Shuter's bank; he, haw, hum!
    And there his nag did kick and prank; he, haw, hum!

    John Cook was riding up Shuter's hill; he, haw, hum!
    His mare fell down, and she made her will; he, haw, hum!

    The bridle and saddle were laid on the shelf; he, haw, hum!
    If you want any more you may sing it yourself; he, haw, hum!

BUZ AND HUM

    Buz, quoth the blue fly,
      Hum, quoth the bee,
    Buz and hum they cry,
      And so do we.

    In his ear, in his nose,
      Thus, do you see?
    He ate the dormouse,
      Else it was he.

TOMMY TITTLEMOUSE

    Little Tommy Tittlemouse
    Lived in a little house;
    He caught fishes
    In other men's ditches.

A AND B AND SEE

    Great A, little a, bouncing B,
    The cat's in the cupboard and she can't see.

DOCTOR FOSTER

    Doctor Foster went to Glo'ster,
    In a shower of rain;
    He stepped in a puddle right up to his middle,
    And never went there again.

DAFFY DOWN DILLY

    Daffy-down-dilly has come to town,
    In a yellow petticoat, and a green gown.

QUEEN ANNE

    Queen Anne, Queen Anne, you sit in the sun,
    As fair as a lily, as white as a wand.
    I send you three letters, and pray read one,
    You must read one, if you can't read all
    So pray Miss or Master throw up the ball.

HO MY KITTEN

    Ho my kitten, a kitten,
      And ho! my kitten, my deary!
    Such a sweet pet as this
      Was neither far nor neary.

    Here we go up, up, up,
      Here we go down, down, down;
    Here we go backwards and forwards,
      And here we go round, round, round.

LAVENDER BLUE

    Lavender blue and rosemary green,
    When I am king you shall be queen;
    Call up my maids at four o'clock,
    Some to the wheel and some to the rock,
    Some to make hay and some to shear corn,
    And you and I will keep ourselves warm.

THE QUARRELSOME KITTENS

    Two little kittens one stormy night,
    They began to quarrel and they began to fight;
    One had a mouse and the other had none,
    And that's the way the quarrel begun.

    "I'll have that mouse," said the biggest cat.
    "You'll have that mouse? we'll see about that!"
    "I will have that mouse," said the eldest son.
    "You sha'n't have the mouse," said the little one.

    I told you before 't was a stormy night
    When these two little kittens began to fight;
    The old woman seized her sweeping broom,
    And swept the two kittens right out of the room.

    The ground was covered with frost and snow,
    And the two little kittens had nowhere to go;
    So they laid them down on the mat at the door,
    While the old woman finished sweeping the floor.

    Then they crept in, as quiet as mice,
    All wet with the snow, and as cold as ice,
    For they found it was better, that stormy night,
    To lie down and sleep than to quarrel and fight.

THE FLY AND THE HUMBLE-BEE

    Fiddle-de-dee, fiddle-de-dee,
    The fly shall marry the humble-bee;

    They went to church and married was she,
    The fly has married the humble-bee.

CAT AND DOG

    Pussy sits beside the fire,
      How can she be fair?
    In comes the little dog,
      "Pussy, are you there?

    So, so, Mistress Pussy,
      Pray, how do you do?"

    "Thank you, thank you, little dog,
      I'm very well just now."

BOBBY SHAFT

    Bobby Shaft is gone to sea,
    With silver buckles at his knee;
    When he'll come home he'll marry me,
    Pretty Bobby Shaft!

    Bobby Shaft is fat and fair,
    Combing down his yellow hair;
    He's my love for evermore!
    Pretty Bobby Shaft!

THE LITTLE CLOCK

    There's a neat little clock,
      In the schoolroom it stands,
    And it points to the time
      With its two little hands.
    And may we, like the clock,
      Keep a face clean and bright,
    With hands ever ready
     To do what is right.

LITTLE MAID

    "Little maid, pretty maid, whither goest thou?"
    "Down in the forest to milk my cow."
    "Shall I go with thee?" "No, not now;
    When I send for thee, then come thou."

BAT, BAT

      Bat, bat,
      Come under my hat,
    And I'll give you a slice of bacon;

      And when I bake,
      I'll give you a cake,
    If I am not mistaken.

CHRISTMAS

    Christmas is coming, the geese are getting fat,
    Please to put a penny in an old man's hat;
    If you haven't got a penny, a ha'penny will do,
    If you haven't got a ha'penny, God bless you.

PETER WHITE

    Peter White will ne'er go right,
      And would you know the reason why?
    He follows his nose where'er he goes,
      And that stands all awry.

SLEEP BABY SLEEP

      Sleep, baby, sleep,
    Our cottage vale is deep;
    The little lamb is on the green,
    With woolly fleece so soft and clean--
      Sleep, baby, sleep!

      Sleep, baby, sleep,
    Down where the woodbines creep;
    Be always like the lamb so mild,
    A kind, and sweet, and gentle child--
      Sleep, baby, sleep!

UP PIPPEN HILL

    As I was going up Pippen Hill,
      Pippen Hill was dirty;
    There I met a pretty miss,
      And she dropped me a curtsey.

    Little miss, pretty miss,
      Blessings light upon you!
    If I had half a crown a day,
      I'd spend it all upon you.

A FALLING OUT

    A little old man and I fell out;
    How shall we bring this matter about?
    Bring it about as well as you can;
    Get you gone, you little old man.

TOM, THE PIPER'S SON

    Tom, Tom, the piper's son,
    Stole a pig and away he run!
    The pig was eat and Tom was beat,
    And Tom went howling down the street.

PEG

    Peg, Peg, with a wooden leg,
      Her father was a miller;
    He tossed the dumpling at her head,
      And said he could not kill her.

A DIFFICULT RHYME

    What is the rhyme for porringer?
    The king he had a daughter fair,
    And gave the Prince of Orange her.

THE OLD WOMAN TOSSED IN A BASKET

    There was an old woman tossed up in a basket
    Seventeen times as high as the moon;
    Where she was going I couldn't but ask it,
    For in her hand she carried a broom.

    "Old woman, old woman, old woman," quoth I,
    "Where are you going to up so high?"
    "To brush the cobwebs off the sky!"
    "May I go with thee?" "Aye, by-and-by."

POOR OLD ROBINSON CRUSOE

    Poor old Robinson Crusoe!
    Poor old Robinson Crusoe!
    They made him a coat
    Of an old nanny goat,
      I wonder why they could do so!
    With a ring a ting tang,
    And a ring a ting tang,
    Poor old Robinson Crusoe!

TWO LITTLE DOGS

    Two little dogs sat by the fire,
      Over a fender of coal-dust;
    When one said to the other dog,
      "If Pompey won't talk, why, I must."

SATURDAY, SUNDAY

    On Saturday night
        Shall be all my care

    To powder my locks
        And curl my hair.

    On Sunday morning
        My love will come in,

    When he will marry me
        With a gold ring.

MERCHANTS _of_ LONDON

    Hey diddle dinkety, poppety, pet.

    The merchants of London they wear scarlet;
    Silk in the collar, and gold in hem,
    So merrily march the merchantmen.

THE OWL IN THE OAK

    There was an owl lived in an oak,
      Whiskey, whaskey, weedle;
    And all the words he ever spoke
      Were fiddle, faddle, feedle.

    A sportsman chanced to come that way,
      Whiskey, whaskey, weedle;
    Says he, "I'll shoot you, silly bird,
      So fiddle, faddle, feedle!"

GEORGY PORGY

    Georgy Porgy, pudding and pie,
    Kissed the girls and made them cry.
    When the boys came out to play,
    Georgy Porgy ran away.

TO MARKET

    To market, to market,
      To buy a fat pig;
    Home again, home again,
      Jiggety jig.

    To market, to market,
      To buy a fat hog;
    Home again, home again,
      Jiggety jog.

THE LITTLE GUINEA-PIG

    There was a little Guinea-Pig,
    Who, being little, was not big;
    He always walked upon his feet,
    And never fasted when he eat.

    When from a place he ran away,
    He never at that place did stay;
    And while he ran, as I am told,
    He ne'er stood still for young or old.

    He often squeak'd and sometimes vi'lent,
    And when he squeak'd he ne'er was silent:
    Though ne'er instructed by a cat,
    He knew a mouse was not a rat.

    One day, as I am certified,
    He took a whim, and fairly died;
    And, as I'm told by men of sense,
    He never has been living since.

A NICK AND A NOCK

    A nick and a nock,
    A hen and a cock,
    And a penny for my master.

PANCAKE DAY

    Great A, little A,
    This is pancake day;
    Toss the ball high,
    Throw the ball low,
    Those that come after
    May sing heigh-ho!

HUSH-A-BYE BABY

    Hush-a-bye, baby,
      On the tree top,
    When the wind blows,
      The cradle will rock;

    When the bough breaks,
      The cradle will fall,
    Down tumbles baby,
      Cradle, and all.

IN MARBLE HALLS

    In marble halls as white as milk,
    Lined with a skin as soft as silk;

    Within a fountain crystal clear,
    A golden apple doth appear;

    No doors there are to this stronghold,
    Yet thieves break in and steal the gold.

JACK SPRAT'S PIG

    Jack Sprat had a pig, who was not very little,
      Nor yet very big;
    He was not very lean, he was not very fat;
      He'll do well for a grunt,
    Says little Jack Sprat.

ROBIN-A-BOBIN

    Robin-a-Bobin
      Bent his bow,
    Shot at a pigeon,
      And killed a crow.

BANDY-LEGS

    As I was going to sell my eggs,
    I met a man with bandy legs;
    Bandy legs and crooked toes,
    I tripped up his heels, and he fell on his nose.

A APPLE PIE

_A Apple Pie_

    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |A               |              |B             |              |
    |was an          |              |bit           |              |
    |apple pie.      |              |it.           |              |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |                |C             |              |D             |
    |                |cut           |              |dealt         |
    |                |it.           |              |it.           |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |E               |              |F             |              |
    |eat             |              |fought        |              |
    |it.             |              |for it.       |              |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |                |G             |              |H             |
    |                |got           |              |had           |
    |                |it.           |              |it.           |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |J               |              |K             |               |
    |joined          |              |kept          |              |
    |it.             |              |it.           |              |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |                |L             |              |M             |
    |                |longed        |              |mourned       |
    |                |for it.       |              |for it.       |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |N               |              |O             |              |
    |nodded          |              |opened        |              |
    |for it.         |              |it.           |              |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |                |P             |              |Q             |
    |                |peeped        |              |quartered     |
    |                |in it.        |              |it.           |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |R               |              |S             |              |
    |ran             |              |stole         |              |
    |for it.         |              |it.           |              |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |                |T             |              |V             |
    |                |took          |              |viewed        |
    |                |it.           |              |it.           |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
    |W               |              |X Y           |              |
    |wanted          |              |and Z         |              |
    |it.             |              |              |              |
    +----------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
                                     all wished a piece of it

THE PUMPKIN EATER

    Peter, Peter, pumpkin eater,
    Had a wife and couldn't keep her;
    He put her in a pumpkin shell,
    And there he kept her very well.

HUSH-A-BYE, BABY

    Hush-a-bye, baby,
      Daddy is near;
    Mamma is a lady,
      And that's very clear.

BIRDS OF A FEATHER

    Birds of a feather flock together,
        And so will pigs and swine;
    Rats and mice will have their choice,
        And so will I have mine.

COCK-A-DOODLE-DO

    Oh, my pretty cock! Oh, my handsome cock!
      I pray you, do not crow before day,
    And your comb shall be made of the very beaten gold,
      And your wings of the silver so gray.

HUSH, BABY, MY DOLLY

    Hush, baby, my dolly, I pray you don't cry,
    And I'll give you some bread and some milk by and by;
    Or perhaps you like custard, or maybe a tart,
    Then to either you're welcome, with all my heart.

I HAD A LITTLE PONY

    I had a little pony
    His name was Dapple-Grey,
    I lent him to a lady,
    To ride a mile away.
    She whipped him, she lashed him,
    She rode him through the mire;
    I would not lend my pony now
    For all the lady's hire.

SNAIL

    Snail, snail, come out of your hole,
    Or else I'll beat you as black as a coal.
    Snail, snail, put out your horns,
    Here comes a thief to pull down your walls.

MY LADY WIND

    My lady Wind, my lady Wind,
    Went round about the house to find
      A chink to get her foot in:
    She tried the keyhole in the door,
    She tried the crevice in the floor,
      And drove the chimney soot in.

    And then one night, when it was dark,
    She blew up such a tiny spark,
      That all the house was pothered:
    From it she raised up such a flame,
    As flamed away to Belting Lane,
      And White Cross folks were smothered.

    And thus when once, my little dears,
    A whisper reaches itching ears,
      The same will come, you'll find:
    Take my advice, restrain the tongue,
    Remember what old nurse has sung
      Of busy lady Wind!

LITTLE JENNY WREN

    As little Jenny Wren
      Was sitting by the shed,
    She waggled with her tail,
      And nodded with her head.

    She waggled with her tail,
      And nodded with her head,
    As little Jenny Wren
      Was sitting by the shed.

POOR ROBIN

      The north wind doth blow,
      And we shall have snow,
    And what will poor Robin do then?
        Poor thing!

      He'll sit in a barn,
      And to keep himself warm
    Will hide his head under his wing.
        Poor thing!

PUSSY CAT

    Pussy-cat, pussy-cat, where have you been?
    I've been up to London to look at the queen.

    Pussy-cat, pussy-cat, what did you there?
    I frightened a little mouse under the chair.

DANCE, LITTLE BABY

    Dance, little Baby, dance up high,
    Never mind, Baby, Mother is by;
    Crow and caper, caper and crow,
    There, little Baby, there you go;
    Up to the ceiling, down to the ground,
    Backwards and forwards, round and round;
    Dance, little Baby, and Mother will sing,
    With the merry coral, ding, ding, ding!

OF WASHING

    They that wash on Friday, wash in need;
    And they that wash on Saturday, oh! they're sluts indeed.

DICKERY, DICKERY, DARE

    Dickery, dickery, dare,
    The pig flew up in the air;
    The man in brown soon brought him down,
    Dickery, dickery, dare.

THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT

    This is the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the rat,
    That ate the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the dog,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the maiden all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the man all tattered and torn,
    That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the priest all shaven and shorn,
    That married the man all tattered and torn,
    That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the cock that crowed in the morn,
    That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
    That married the man all tattered and torn,
    That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

    This is the farmer sowing his corn,
    That kept the cock that crowed in the morn,
    That waked the priest all shaven and shorn,
    That married the man all tattered and torn,
    That kissed the maiden all forlorn,
    That milked the cow with the crumpled horn,
    That tossed the dog,
    That worried the cat,
    That killed the rat,
    That ate the malt
    That lay in the house that Jack built.

A FROG HE WOULD AWOOING GO

    A frog he would a-wooing go,
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    Whether his mother would let him or no.
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    So off he set with his opera hat,
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    And on the road he met with a rat.
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    "Pray, Mr. Rat, will you go with me?"
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    "Kind Mistress Mousey for to see!"
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    When they reached the door of Mousey's hall,
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    They gave a loud knock, and they gave a loud call.
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    "Pray, Mistress Mouse, are you within?"
        Heigho! says Rowley;
    "Oh, yes, kind sirs, I'm sitting to spin."
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    "Pray, Mistress Mouse, will you give us some beer?"
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    "For Froggy and I are fond of good cheer."
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    "Pray, Mr. Frog, will you give us a song?"
        Heigho! says Rowley;
    "But let it be something that's not very long."
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    "Indeed, Mistress Mouse," replied Mr. Frog,
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    "A cold has made me as hoarse as a hog."
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    "Since you have caught cold, Mr. Frog," Mousey said,
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    "I'll sing you a song that I have just made."
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    But while they were all a merry-making,
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    A cat with her kittens came tumbling in.
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    The cat she seized the rat by the crown,
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    The kittens they pulled the little mouse down.
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    This put Mr. Frog in a terrible fright,
        Heigho! says Rowley;
    He took up his hat and he wished them good-night.
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    But as Froggy was crossing over a brook,
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    A lily-white duck came and gobbled him up.
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

    So there was an end of one, two, and three,
        Heigho! says Rowley,
    The Rat, the Mouse, and the little Frog-gee!
      With a rowley powley, gammon and spinach,
      Heigho! says Anthony Rowley.

THE MOUSE AND THE MILLER

    There was an old woman
    Lived under a hill,
    She put a mouse in a bag,
    And sent it to mill;
    The miller did swear
    By the point of his knife,
    He never took toll
    Of a mouse in his life!

LITTLE BETTY BLUE

    Little Betty Blue
    Lost her holiday shoe,
    What shall little Betty do?
    Buy her another
    To match the other,
    And then she'll walk upon two.

OF THE CUTTING OF NAILS

    Cut them on Monday, you cut them for health;
    Cut them on Tuesday, you cut them for wealth;
    Cut them on Wednesday, you cut them for news;
    Cut them on Thursday, a pair of new shoes;
    Cut them on Friday, you cut them for sorrow;
    Cut them on Saturday, you'll see your true-love to-morrow;
    Cut them on Sunday, and you will have ill fortune all through the week.

THE ORANGE STEALER

    Dingty, diddledy, my mammy's maid,
    She stole oranges, I'm afraid;
    Some in her pockets, some in her sleeve,
    She stole oranges, I do believe.

I LOVE SIXPENCE

    I love sixpence, a jolly, jolly sixpence,
      I love sixpence as my life;
    I spent a penny of it, I spent a penny of it,
      I took a penny home to my wife.

    I love fourpence, a jolly, jolly fourpence,
      I love fourpence as my life;
    I spent two pence of it, I spent two pence of it,
      And I took two pence home to my wife.

    I love nothing, a jolly, jolly nothing,
      I love nothing as my life;
    I spent nothing of it, I spent nothing of it,
      I took nothing home to my wife.

DIDDLEY-DIDDLEY-DUMPTY

    Diddley-Diddley-Dumpty,
    The cat ran up the plum-tree,
      Half a crown
      To fetch her down,
    Diddley-diddley-dumpty.

SAMMY SOAPSUDS

    When little Sammy Soapsuds
      Went out to take a ride,
    In looking over London Bridge,
      He fell into the tide.

    His parents never having taught
      Their loving Sam to swim,
    The tide soon got the mastery,
      And made an end of him.

The ROSE is RED

    The rose is red, the violet blue,
    The gilly flower sweet, and so are you.

    These are the words you bade me say
    For a pair of new gloves on Easter Day.

THE WIND

    When the wind is in the East,
    'Tis neither good for man nor beast;
    When the wind is in the North,
    The skilful fisher goes not forth;
    When the wind is in the South,
    It blows the bait in the fish's mouth;
    When the wind is in the West,
    Then 'tis at the very best.

A WARNING

    The robin and the red-breast,
      The robin and the wren;
    If ye take from their nest,
      Ye'll  never thrive again!

    The robin and the red-breast,
      The martin and the swallow;
    If ye touch one of their eggs,
      Bad luck will surely follow.

FINGERS AND TOES

    Every lady in this land
    Has twenty nails upon each hand
    Five and twenty on hands and feet.
    All this is true, without deceit.

COCK-CROW

    Cocks crow in the morn
      To tell us to rise,
    And he who lies late
      Will never be wise;

    For early to bed
      And early to rise,
    Is the way to be healthy
      And wealthy and wise.

MY MAID MARY

    My maid Mary she minds the dairy,
      While I go a-hoeing and mowing each morn;
    Gaily run the reel and the little spinning-wheel,
      Whilst I am singing and mowing my corn.

ROBIN AND WREN

    The Robin and the Wren
    Fought about the parritch-pan;
    And ere the Robin got a spoon,
    The Wren had ate the parritch down.

BUY ME A MILKING-PAIL

    "Buy me a milking-pail,
      Mother, mother."
    "Betsy's gone a-milking,
      Beautiful daughter."

    "Sell my father's feather-bed,
      Mother, mother."
    "Where will your father lie,
      Beautiful daughter?"

    "Put him in the boys' bed,
      Mother, mother."
    "Where will the boys lie,
      Beautiful daughter?"

    "Put them in the pigs' stye,
      Mother, mother."
    "Where will the pigs lie,
      Beautiful daughter?"

    "Put them in the salting-tub,
      Mother, mother.
    Put them in the salting-tub,
      Mother, mother."

HUMPTY-DUMPTY

    Humpty-Dumpty sat on a wall,
    Humpty-Dumpty had a great fall;

    Threescore men, and threescore more,
    Cannot place Humpty-Dumpty as he was before.

WHAT ARE LITTLE BOYS MADE OF?

    What are little boys made of, made of?
    What are little boys made of?
    Snips and snails, and puppy-dogs' tails;
    That's what little boys are made of, made of.

    What are little girls made of, made of?
    What are little girls made of?
    Sugar and spice, and all things nice,
    That's what little girls are made of, made of.

THERE WAS A LITTLE MAN

    There was a little man, and he had a little gun,
    And his bullets they were made of lead, lead, lead.
    He shot Johnny Sprig through the middle of his wig,
    And knocked it right off his head, head, head.

A MEDLEY

    On Christmas Eve I turned the spit,
    I burnt my fingers, I feel it yet;
    The cock sparrow flew over the table,
    The pot began to play with the ladle;
    The ladle stood up like a naked man,
    And vowed he'd fight the frying-pan;
    The frying-pan behind the door
    Said he never saw the like before;
    And the kitchen clock I was going to wind
    Said he never saw the like behind.

THE WISE MEN OF GOTHAM

    Three wise men of Gotham
    They went to sea in a bowl;
    And if the bowl had been stronger,
    My song had been longer.

TO THE BIRDS

    Away, birds, away!
    Take a little, and leave a little,
    And do not come again;
    For if you do,

    I will shoot you through,
    And there is an end of you.

HEY! DIDDLE, DIDDLE

    Hey! diddle, diddle,
    The cat and the fiddle,
    The cow jumped over the moon;
    The little dog laughed
    To see such craft,
    And the dish ran away with the spoon.

TWO LITTLE BIRDS

    There were two blackbirds
      Sat upon a hill,
    The one named Jack,
      The other named Jill.
        Fly away, Jack!
        Fly away, Jill!
        Come again, Jack!
        Come again, Jill!

THE LITTLE COCK SPARROW

    A Little Cock Sparrow sat on a green tree,
    And he chirruped, he chirruped, so merry was he;
    A little Cock Sparrow sat on a green tree,
    And he chirruped, he chirruped, so merry was he.

    A naughty boy came with his wee bow and arrow,
    Determined to shoot this little Cock Sparrow;
    A naughty boy came with his wee bow and arrow,
    Determined to shoot this little Cock Sparrow.

    "This little Cock Sparrow shall make me a stew,
    And his giblets shall make me a little pie too."
    "Oh, no!" said the sparrow, "I won't make a stew."
    So he flapped his wings and away he flew!

DAME TROT

    Dame Trot and her cat
    Sat down for to chat;
    The Dame sat on this side.
    And Puss sat on that.

    "Puss," says the Dame,
    "Can you catch a rat
    Or a mouse in the dark?"
    "Purr," says the cat.

IF

    If you are to be a gentleman, as I suppose you be,
    You'll neither laugh nor smile for a tickling of the knee.

HOW DO YOU DO?

    How do you do, neighbour?
    Neighbour, how do you do?
    Very well, I thank you.
    How does Cousin Sue do?
    She is very well,
    And sends her love to you,
    And so does Cousin Bell.
    Ah! how, pray, does she do?

THERE WAS A LITTLE BOY

    There was a little boy and a little girl,
      Lived in an alley;
    Says the little boy to the little girl,
      "Shall I, oh, shall I?"

    Says the little girl to the little boy,
      "What shall we do?"
    Says the little boy to the little girl,
      "I will kiss you."

    THE MAN IN THE WILDERNESS

    The man in the wilderness asked me,
    How many strawberries grew in the sea?
    I answered him, as I thought good,
    As many as red herrings grew in the wood.

THOMAS A'TATTAMUS

    Thomas A'Tattamus took two T's
    To tie two tups to two tall trees,
    To frighten the terrible Thomas A'Tattamus!
    Tell me how many T's there are in all that.

LITTLE GIRL, LITTLE GIRL

    Little girl, little girl, where have you been?
    Gathering roses to give to the Queen.
    Little girl, little girl, what gave she you?
    She gave me a diamond as big as my shoe.

OLD KING COLE

    Old King Cole was a merry old soul,
    And a merry old soul was he;
    He called for his pipe,
    And he called for his bowl,
    And he called for his fiddlers three.
    Every fiddler, he had a fine fiddle,
    And a very fine fiddle had he;
    Twee tweedle dee, tweedle dee, went the fiddlers.
    Oh, there's none so rare,
    As can compare
    With King Cole
    And his fiddlers three!

LENGTHENING DAYS

    As the days grow longer
    The storms grow stronger

HARK, HARK! THE DOGS DO BARK

    Hark, hark! the dogs do bark,
      Beggars are coming to town;
    Some in jags, and some in rags,
      And some in velvet gown.

BESSY BELL AND MARY GRAY

    Bessy Bell and Mary Gray,
      They were two bonny lasses;
    They built their house upon the lea,
      And covered it with rashes.

    Bessy kept the garden gate,
      And Mary kept the pantry:
    Bessy always had to wait,
      While Mary lived in plenty.

WEE WILLIE WINKIE

    Wee Willie Winkie runs through the town,
    Up stairs and down stairs, in his nightgown,
    Rapping at the window, crying through the lock:
    "Are the children in their beds, for it's past eight o'clock."

BAA, BAA, BLACK SHEEP

    Baa, baa, black sheep, have you any wool?
    Yes, marry, have I, three bags full:
    One for my master, one for my dame,
    But none for the little boy who cries in the lane.

EARLY RISING

    He that would thrive,
    Must rise at five;
    He that hath thriven,
    May lie till seven;
    And he that by the plough would thrive,
    Himself must either hold or drive.

THE TAILORS AND THE SNAIL

    Four and twenty tailors went to kill a snail,
    The best man amongst them durst not touch her tail;
    She put out her horns like a little Kyloe cow,
    Run, tailors, run, or she'll kill you all e'en now.

BUTTONS

    Buttons, a farthing a pair,
    Come, who will buy them of me?
    They're round and sound and pretty,
    And fit for the girls of the city.
    Come, who will buy them of me,
    Buttons, a farthing a pair?

SULKY SUE

    Here's Sulky Sue;
    What shall we do?
    Turn her face to the wall
    Till she comes to.

HECTOR PROTECTOR

    Hector Protector was dressed all in green;
    Hector Protector was sent to the Queen.
    The Queen did not like him, No more did the King;
    So Hector Protector was sent back again.

JERRY AND JAMES AND JOHN

    There was an old woman had three sons,
    Jerry and James and John;
    Jerry was hung, James was drowned,
    John was lost, and never was found;
    And there was an end of her three sons,
    Jerry and James and John!

THE OLD WOMAN WHO LIVED IN A SHOE

    There was an old woman who lived in a shoe,
    She had so many children she didn't know what to do;
    She gave them some broth without any bread,
    Then whipped them all round, and sent them to bed.

NEEDLES AND PINS

    Needles and pins, needles and pins,
    When a man marries his trouble begins.

THE SONG OF MYSELF

    As I walked by myself,
    And talked to myself,
        Myself said unto me:
    Look to thyself,
    Take care of thyself,
        For nobody cares for thee.

    I answered myself,
    And said to myself,
        In the self-same repartee:
    Look to thyself,
    Or not look to thyself,
        The self-same thing will be.

TIT-TAT-TOE

    Tit-tat-toe,
    My first go,
    Three jolly butcher-boys
    All of a row;
    Stick one up,
    Stick one down,
    Stick one in the old man's crown.

THE WAY TO LONDON TOWN

    See-saw, sacaradown,
    Which is the way to London town?
    One foot up, the other foot down,
    That is the way to London town.

CAESAR'S SONG

    Bow, wow, wow, whose dog art thou?
    Little Tom Tinker's dog,
    Bow, wow, wow.

GREEN GRAVEL

    Around the green gravel the grass grows green,
    And all the pretty maids are plain to be seen;
    Wash them with milk, and clothe them with silk,
    And write their names with a pen and ink.

WASH ME AND COMB ME

    Wash me and comb me,
    And lay me down softly,
    And lay me on a bank to dry,
    That I may look pretty,
    When somebody comes by.

TEN FINGERS

    One, two, three, four, five,
    Once I caught a fish alive,
    Six, seven, eight, nine, ten,
    But I let him go again.

    Why did you let him go?
    Because he bit my finger so.
    Which finger did he bite?
    The little one upon the right.

THE CODLIN WOMAN

    There was a little woman, as I've been told,
    Who was not very young, nor yet very old,
    Now this little woman her living got,
    By selling codlins, hot, hot, hot!

OF PIGS

    A Long-Tailed pig and a short-tailed pig,
    Or a pig without e'er a tail,
    A sow pig, or a boar pig,
    Or a pig with a curly tail.

GOOD KING ARTHUR

    When good King Arthur ruled this land
      He was a goodly king;
    He stole three pecks of barley-meal
      To make a bag-pudding.

    A bag-pudding the king did make,
      And stuff'd it well with plums;
    And in it put great lumps of fat,
      As big as my two thumbs.

    The king and queen did eat thereof,
      And noble men beside;
    And what they could not eat that night,
      The queen next morning fried.

SOLOMON GRUNDY

    Solomon Grundy,
    Born on a Monday,
    Christened on Tuesday,
    Married on Wednesday,
    Took ill on Thursday,
    Worse on Friday,
    Died on Saturday,
    Buried on Sunday,
    This is the end
    Of Solomon Grundy.

THREE BLIND MICE

    Three blind mice, three blind mice,
    They all ran after the farmer's wife,
    She cut off their tails with a carving knife;
    Did you ever see such a thing in your life
    As three blind mice?

CROSS-PATCH

    Cross-Patch, draw the latch,
      Sit by the fire and spin;
    Take a cup, and drink it up,
      Then call your neighbours in.

YANKEE DOODLE

    Yankee Doodle came to town,
      Mounted on a pony;
    He stuck a feather in his cap
      And called it Maccaroni.

    Yankee Doodle came to town,
      Yankee Doodle dandy,
    He stuck a feather in his cap
      And called it sugar-candy.

TWINKLE, TWINKLE, LITTLE STAR

    Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
    How I wonder what you are!
    Up above the world so high,
    Like a diamond in the sky.

    When the blazing sun is gone,
    When he nothing shines upon,
    Then you show your little light,
    Twinkle, twinkle, all the night.

    Then the traveller in the dark
    Thanks you for your tiny spark:
    How could he see where to go,
    If you did not twinkle so?

    In the dark blue sky you keep,
    Often through my curtains peep,
    For you never shut your eye
    Till the sun is in the sky.

    How your bright and tiny spark
    Lights the traveller in the dark!
    Though I know not what you are,
    Twinkle, twinkle, little star.

BOYS _and_ GIRLS

    Boys and girls come out to play,
    The moon doth shine as bright as day;

    Come with a whoop, and come with a call,
    Come with a good will or come not at all.

    Lose your supper and lose your sleep,
    Come to your playfellows in the street.

    Up the ladder and down the wall,
    A halfpenny loaf will serve us all;

    You find milk, and I'll find flour,
    And we'll have a pudding in half an hour.

SING IVY

    My father he left me three acres of land,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
    My father he left me three acres of land,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

    I ploughed it with a ram's horn,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
    And sowed it all over with one peppercorn,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

    I harrowed it with a bramble bush,
      Sing ivy, sing ivy;
    And reaped it with my little pen-knife,
      Sing holly, go whistle, and ivy!

PUSSYCAT MEW

    Pussycat Mew jumped over a coal,
    And in her best petticoat burnt a great hole.

    Poor Pussy's weeping, she'll have no more milk,
    Until her best petticoat's mended with silk!

GOOSEY, GOOSEY, GANDER

    Goosey, goosey, gander,
      Whither dost thou wander?
    Up stairs and down stairs,
      And in my lady's chamber.

    There I met an old man
      That would not say his prayers;
    I took him by the left leg,
      And threw him down stairs.

THE MAN AND HIS CALF

    There was an old man,
    And he had a calf,
    And that's half;
    He took him out of the stall,
    And put him on the wall,
    And that's all.

RIDE A COCK-HORSE

    Ride a cock-horse
    To Banbury Cross,
    To see what Tommy can buy;
    A penny white loaf,
    A penny white cake,
    And a twopenny apple-pie.

SEEKING A WIFE

    When I was a bachelor, I lived by myself,
    And all the bread and cheese I got I put upon a shelf,
    The rats and the mice did lead me such a life,
    That I went up to London, to get myself a wife.

    The streets were so broad, and the lanes were so narrow,
    I could not get my wife home without a wheelbarrow,
    The wheelbarrow broke, my wife got a fall,
    Down tumbled wheelbarrow, little wife, and all.

DOCTOR FAUSTUS

    Doctor Faustus was a good man,
      He whipped his scholars now and then;
    When he whipped them he made them dance
      Out of Scotland into France,
    Out of France into Spain,
      And then he whipped them back again.

POLLY, PUT THE KETTLE ON

    Polly, put the kettle on,
    Polly, put the kettle on,
    Polly, put the kettle on,
      And we'll have tea.

    Sukey, take it off again,
    Sukey, take it off again,
    Sukey, take it off again,
      They're all gone away.

THE BLACKSMITH

    Robert Barnes, fellow fine,
    Can you shoe this horse of mine?
    "Yes, good sir, that I can,
    As well as any other man;
    Here's a nail, and there's a prod,
    And now, good sir, your horse is shod."

THE FOUNT OF LEARNING

    Here's A, B, and C, D, E, F, and G,
    H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q,
    R, S, T, and U,
    W, X, Y, and Z.
    And here's the child's dad
    Who is sagacious and discerning,
    And knows this is the fount of all learning.

OF ARITHMETIC

    Multiplication is vexation,
      Division is as bad;
    The Rule of Three doth puzzle me,
      And Practice drives me mad.

OVER THE WATER TO CHARLEY

    Over the water, and over the lea,
    And over the water to Charley.
    Charley loves good ale and wine,
    And Charley loves good brandy;
    And Charley loves a pretty girl,
    As sweet as sugar-candy.
    Over the water, and over the sea,
    And over the water to Charley,
    I'll have none of your nasty beef,
    Nor I'll have none of your barley;
    But I'll have some of your very best flour,
    To make a white cake for my Charley.

THREE JOLLY WELSHMEN

    There were three jolly Welshmen,
      As I have heard say,
    And they went a-hunting
      Upon St. David's day.

    All the day they hunted,
      And nothing could they find;
    But a ship a-sailing,
      A-sailing with the wind.

    One said it was a ship,
      The other he said "Nay";
    The third he said it was a house,
      With the chimney blown away.

    And all the night they hunted,
      And nothing could they find,
    But the moon a-gliding,
      A-gliding with the wind.

    One said it was the moon,
      The other he said "Nay";
    The third he said it was a cheese,
      With half o' it cut away.

THE DAYS OF THE MONTH

    Thirty days hath September,
    April, June, and November;
    February has twenty-eight alone,
    All the rest have thirty-one,
    Except in leap-year, when's the time
    That February has twenty-nine.

A VARIED SONG

    I'll sing you a song,
    The days are long,
    The woodcock and the sparrow;
    The little dog he has burned his tail,
    And he must be hanged to-morrow.

A DILLER, A DOLLAR.

    A diller, a dollar,
    A ten o'clock scholar;
    What makes you come so soon?
    You used to come at ten o'clock,
    But now you come at noon.

A PIE SAT ON A PEAR-TREE

    A Pie sat on a pear-tree,
    A pie sat on a pear-tree,
    A pie sat on a pear-tree,
    Heigh O, heigh O, heigh O!
    Once so merrily hopped she,
    Twice so merrily hopped she,
    Thrice so merrily hopped she,
    Heigh O, heigh O, heigh O!

THE GIRL IN THE LANE

      The girl in the lane, that couldn't speak plain,
    Cried gobble, gobble, gobble;

      The man on the hill, that couldn't stand still,
    Went hobble, hobble, hobble.

THREE MEN IN A TUB

    Rub-a-dub-dub,
    Three men in a tub;
    And who do you think they be?
    The butcher, the baker,
    The candlestick-maker;
    Turn 'em out, knaves all three!

LITTLE MISS MUFFET

    Little Miss Muffet,
      She sat on a tuffet,
    Eating of curds and whey;
      There came a big spider,
      And sat down beside her,
    And frightened Miss Muffet away.

THE BOY AND THE OWL

    There was a little boy went into a field,
      And lay down on some hay;

    An owl came out and flew about,
      And the little boy ran away.

COCK ROBIN'S COURTING

    Cock Robin got up early,
      At the break of day,
    And went to Jenny's window
      To sing a roundelay.

    He sang Cock Robin's love
      To the little Jenny Wren,
    And when he got unto the end,
      Then he began again.

FOR EVERY EVIL

    For every evil under the sun,
    There is a remedy, or there is none.
    If there be one, seek till you find it;
    If there be none, never mind it.

WHEN I WAS A LITTLE BOY

    When I was a little boy,
    I washed my mammy's dishes,
    I put my finger in my eye,
    And pulled out golden fishes.

ANDREW

    As I was going o'er Westminster Bridge,
    I met with a Westminster scholar;
    He pulled off his cap, _an' drew_ off his glove,
    And wished me a very good morrow.
    What is his name?

MARY'S CANARY

    Mary had a pretty bird,
      Feathers bright and yellow;
    Slender legs--upon my word,
      He was a pretty fellow.
    The sweetest note he always sung,
      Which much delighted Mary;
    She often, where the cage was hung,
      Sat hearing her canary.

THE CUCKOO

    In April,
    Come he will.

    In May,
    He sings all day.

    In June,
    He changes his tune.

    In July,
    He prepares to fly.

    In August,
    Go he must.

A SWARM OF BEES

    A swarm of bees in May
    Is worth a load of hay;
    A swarm of bees in June
    Is worth a silver spoon;
    A swarm of bees in July
    Is not worth a fly.

ROBIN AND RICHARD

    Robin and Richard were two little men,
    They did not awake till the clock struck ten;

    Then up starts Robin, and looks at the sky;
    Oh! brother Richard, the sun's very high!

    They both were ashamed, on such a fine day,
    When they were wanted to make the new hay.

    Do you go before, with bottle and bag,
    I will come after on little Jack nag.

THE DEATH AND BURIAL OF COCK ROBIN

    Who killed Cock Robin?
    'I'  said the sparrow
    "With my bow and arrow,
    I killed Cock Robin."

    Who saw him die?
    'I'  said the fly
    "With my little eye,
    I saw him die."

    Who caught his blood?
    'I'  said the fish
    "With my little dish,
    I caught his blood."

    Who'll make his shroud?
    'I'  said the beetle
    "With my thread and needle,
    I'll make his shroud."

    Who'll bear the torch?
    'I'  said the linnet
    "Will come in a minute,
    I'll bear the torch."

    Who'll be the clerk?
    'I'  said the lark
    "I'll say Amen in the dark;
    I'll be the clerk."

    Who'll dig his grave?
    'I'  said the owl
    "With my spade and trowel,
    I'll dig his grave."

    Who'll be the parson?
    'I'  said the rook
    "With my little book
    I'll be the parson."

    Who'll be chief mourner?
    'I'  said the dove
    "I mourn for my love;
    I'll be chief mourner."

    Who'll sing his dirge?
    'I'  said the thrush
    "As I sing in a bush,
    I'll sing his dirge."

    Who'll carry his coffin?
    'I'  said the kite
    "If it be in the night,
    I'll carry his coffin."

    Who'll toll the bell?
    'I'  said the bull
    "Because I can pull,
    I'll toll the bell."

    The birds of the air
      Fell sighing and sobbing
    When they heard the bell toll
      For poor Cock Robin.

LADY-BIRD, LADY-BIRD

    Lady-Bird, Lady-Bird, fly away home,
    Your house is on fire, your children have gone,
    All but one, that lies under a stone;
    Fly thee home, Lady-Bird, ere it be gone.

THE LOVING BROTHERS

    I love you well, my little brother,
      And you are fond of me;
    Let us be kind to one another,
      As brothers ought to be.
    You shall learn to play with me,
      And learn to use my toys;
    And then I think that we shall be
      Two happy little boys.

NOTHING-AT-ALL

    There was an old woman called Nothing-at-all,
    Who rejoiced in a dwelling exceedingly small;
    A man stretched his mouth to its utmost extent,
    And down at one gulp house and old woman went.

FORTUNE-TELLING BY CHERRY-STONES

    One, I love; two, I love;
    Three, I love, I say;
    Four, I love with all my heart;
    Five, I cast away;
    Six, he loves; seven, she loves;
    Eight, both love;
    Nine, he comes; ten, he tarries;
    Eleven, he courts; and twelve, he marries.

LITTLE BO-PEEP

    Little Bo-Peep has lost her sheep,
      And can't tell where to find them;
    Let them alone, and they'll come home,
      And bring their tails behind them.

    Little Bo-Peep fell fast asleep,
      And dreamt she heard them bleating;
    And when she awoke, she found it a joke,
      For still they were all fleeting.

    Then up she took her little crook,
      Determined for to find them;
    She found them indeed, but it made her heart bleed,
      For they'd left all their tails behind them.

    It happened one day as Bo-Peep did stray
      Into a meadow hard by,
    There she espied their tails side by side,
      All hung on a tree to dry.

    She heaved a sigh, and wiped her eye,
      And went over hill and dale, oh;
    And tried what she could, as a shepherdess should,
      To tack to each sheep its tail, oh!

TO BED!

    Come let's to bed,
      Says Sleepy-head;
    Sit up a while, says Slow;
      Put on the pan, says Greedy Nan,
    Let's sup before we go.

OF GOING TO BED

    Go to bed first,
    A golden purse;

    Go to bed second,
    A golden pheasant;

    Go to bed third,
    A golden bird.

GRACE BEFORE MEAT

    Here a little child I stand,
    Heaving up my either hand;

    Cold as paddocks though they be,
    Here I lift them up to Thee,
    For a benison to fall
    On our meat and on us all!

THERE WAS A BUTCHER

    There was a butcher cut his thumb,
    When it did bleed, then blood did come.

    There was a chandler making candle,
    When he them stript, he did them handle.

    There was a cobbler clouting shoon,
    When they were mended, they were done.

    There was a crow sat on a stone,
    When he was gone, then there was none.

    There was a horse going to the mill,
    When he went on, he stood not still.

    There was a lackey ran a race,
    When he ran fast, he ran apace.

    There was a monkey climbed a tree,
    When he fell down, then down fell he.

    There was a navy went into Spain,
    When it return'd, it came again.

    There was an old woman lived under a hill,
    And if she's not gone, she lives there still.

WINTER HAS COME

    Cold and raw the north wind doth blow,
    Bleak in a morning early;
    All the hills are covered with snow,
    And winter's now come fairly.

MONDAY'S CHILD

    Monday's child is fair of face,
    Tuesday's child is full of grace,
    Wednesday's child is full of woe,
    Thursday's child has far to go,
    Friday's child is loving and giving,
    Saturday's child works hard for its living,
    But the child that is born on the Sabbath day
    Is bonny, and blithe, and good, and gay.

JACK AND JILL

    Jack and Jill went up the hill,
    To fetch a pail of water.

    Jack fell down, and broke his crown,
    And Jill came tumbling after.

    Then up Jack got up, and off did trot,
    As fast as he could caper,

    To old Dame Dob, who patched his nob,
    With vinegar and brown paper.

CHARLEY, CHARLEY

    Charley, Charley, stole the barley
      Out of the baker's shop,
    The baker came out and gave him a clout,
      Which made poor Charley hop.

THE PIPER'S COW

    There was a piper had a cow,
      And he had nought to give her;
    He pulled out his pipe, and played her a tune,
      And bade the cow consider.

    The cow considered very well,
      And gave the piper a penny,
    And bade him play the other tune--
      "Corn rigs are bonny."

SHAVE A PIG

    Barber, barber, shave a pig,
    How many hairs will make a wig?
    "Four and twenty, that's enough,"
    Give the barber a pinch of snuff.

TONGS

    Long legs, crooked thighs,
    Little head, and no eyes.

GOING TO ST. IVES

    As I was going to St. Ives
    I met a man with seven wives;
    Every wife had seven sacks,
    Every sack had seven cats,
    Every cat had seven kits.
    Kits, cats, sacks, and wives,
    How many were there going to St. Ives?

MERRY ARE THE BELLS

    Merry are the bells, and merry would they ring;
    Merry was myself, and merry could I sing;
    With a merry ding-dong, happy, gay, and free,
    And a merry sing-song, happy let us be!

    Waddle goes your gait, and hollow are your hose;
    Noddle goes your pate, and purple is your nose;
    Merry is your sing-song, happy, gay, and free,
    With a merry ding-dong, happy let us be!

    Merry have we met, and merry have we been;
    Merry let us part, and merry meet again;
    With our merry sing-song, happy, gay, and free,
    And a merry ding-dong, happy let us be!

MORE ABOUT JACK JINGLE

    Now what do you think
      Of little Jack Jingle?
    Before he was married
      He used to live single.

ROBIN, THE BOBBIN

    Robin, the Bobbin, the bouncing Ben,
    He ate more meat than fourscore men;
    He ate a cow, he ate a calf,
    He ate a butcher and a half;
    He ate a church, he ate a steeple,
    He ate the priest, and all the people!

ALL FOR WANT OF A NAIL

    For want of a nail, the shoe was lost,
    For want of the shoe, the horse was lost,
    For want of the horse, the rider was lost,
    For want of the rider, the battle was lost,
    For want of the battle, the kingdom was lost,
    And all for the want of a horse-shoe nail!

CURLY LOCKS

    Curly locks! curly locks! wilt thou be mine?
    Thou shalt not wash dishes, nor yet feed the swine;
    But sit on a cushion, and sew a fine seam,
    And feed upon strawberries, sugar, and cream!

ST. VALENTINE'S DAY

    Good morrow to you, Valentine!
    Curl your locks as I do mine;

    Two before and three behind;
    Good morrow to you, Valentine!

THE KING OF FRANCE

    The King of France
      Went up the hill,
    With twenty thousand men;

    The King of France came down the hill,
      And ne'er went up again.

THE LATEST NEWS

    What is the news of the day, Good neighbour, I pray?
    They say the balloon is gone up to the moon!

THE LIGHT-HEARTED FAIRY

    Oh, who is so merry, so merry, heigh ho!
    As the light-hearted fairy, heigh ho, heigh ho?
      He dances and sings
      To the sound of his wings,
    With a hey, and a heigh, and a ho!

    Oh, who is so merry, so merry, heigh ho!
    As the light-hearted fairy, heigh ho, heigh ho?
      His nectar he sips
      From a primrose's lips,
    With a hey, and a heigh, and a ho!

    Oh, who is so merry, so merry, heigh ho!
    As the light-footed fairy, heigh ho, heigh ho?
        His night is the noon,
        And his sun is the moon,
    With a hey, and a heigh, and a ho!

I LIKE LITTLE PUSSY

    I like little Pussy, her coat is so warm,
    And if I don't hurt her she'll do me no harm;
    So I'll not pull her tail, nor drive her away,
    But Pussy and I very gently will play.

PUNCH AND JUDY

    Punch and Judy
      Fought for a pie,
    Punch gave Judy
      A knock in the eye.

    Says Punch to Judy,
     "Will you have any more?"
    Says Judy to Punch,
      "My eye is too sore."

THE OBSTINATE PIG

An old woman was sweeping her house, and she found a little crooked
sixpence.

"What," said she, "shall I do with this little sixpence? I will go to
market, and buy a little pig."

As she was coming home she came to a stile; but Piggy would not go
over the stile.

She went a little farther and she met a dog.

      So she said to the dog:

    "Dog, dog, bite pig!
    Piggy won't get over the stile;
    And I sha'n't get home to-night."

    But the dog would not.

She went a little farther and she met a stick.

      So she said:

    "Stick, stick, beat dog!
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Pig won't get over the stile;
    And I sha'n't get home to-night."

    But the stick would not.

She went a little farther and she met a fire.

      So she said:

    "Fire, fire, burn stick!
    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Pig won't get over the stile;
    And I sha'n't get home to-night."

    But the fire would not.

She went a little farther and she met some water.

      So she said:

    "Water, water, quench fire!
    Fire won't burn stick;
    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Pig won't get over the stile;
    And I sha'n't get home to-night."

    But the water would not.

She went a little farther and she met an ox.

      So she said:

    "Ox, ox, drink water!
    Water won't quench fire;
    Fire won't burn stick;
    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Pig won't get over the stile;
    And I sha'n't get home to-night."

    But the ox would not.

She went a little farther and she met a butcher.

      So she said:

    "Butcher, butcher, kill ox!
    Ox won't drink water;
    Water won't quench fire;
    Fire won't burn stick;
    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Pig won't get over the stile;
    And I sha'n't get home to-night."

    But the butcher would not.

She went a little farther and she met a rope.

      So she said:

    "Rope, rope, hang butcher!
    Butcher won't kill ox;
    Ox won't drink water;
    Water won't quench fire;
    Fire won't burn stick;
    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Pig won't get over the stile;
    And I sha'n't get home to-night."

    But the rope would not.

She went a little farther and she met a rat.

      So she said:

    "Rat, rat, gnaw rope!
    Rope won't hang butcher;
    Butcher won't kill ox;
    Ox won't drink water;
    Water won't quench fire;
    Fire won't burn stick;
    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Pig won't get over the stile;
    And I sha'n't get home to-night."

    But the rat would not.

She went a little farther and she met a cat.

      So she said:

    "Cat, cat, kill rat!
    Rat won't gnaw rope;
    Rope won't hang butcher;
    Butcher won't kill ox;
    Ox won't drink water;
    Water won't quench fire;
    Fire won't burn stick;
    Stick won't beat dog;
    Dog won't bite pig;
    Pig won't get over the stile;
    And I sha'n't get home to-night."

The cat said: "If you will get me a saucer of milk from the cow in
yonder field I will kill the rat."

So the old woman went to the cow and said: "Cow, cow, will you give me
a saucer of milk?" And the cow said: "If you will get me a bucket full
of water from yonder brook I will give you the milk." And the old
woman took the bucket to the brook; but the water all rushed out
through the holes in the bottom. So she filled the holes up with
stones, got the water, and took it to the cow, who at once gave her
the saucer of milk. Then the old woman gave the cat the milk, and when
she had lapped up the milk--

    The cat began to kill the rat;
    The rat began to gnaw the rope;
    The rope began to hang the butcher;
    The butcher began to kill the ox;
    The ox began to drink the water;
    The water began to quench the fire;
    The fire began to burn the stick;
    The stick began to beat the dog;
    The dog began to bite the pig;
    The pig jumped over the stile;
    And so the old woman got home that night.

BOW-WOW, SAYS THE DOG

    Bow-wow, says the dog;
    Mew-mew, says the cat;
    Grunt, grunt, goes the hog;
    And squeak, goes the rat.

    Chirp, chirp, says the sparrow;
    Caw, caw, says the crow;
    Quack, quack, says the duck;
    And what cuckoos say, you know.

    So, with sparrows and cuckoos,
    With rats and with dogs,
    With ducks and with crows,
    With cats and with hogs,

    A fine song I have made,
    To please you, my dear;
    And if it's well sung,
    'T will be charming to hear.

THE BURNY BEE

    Bless you, bless you, burny bee;
    Say, when will your wedding be?
    If it be to-morrow day,
    Take your wings and fly away.

DANTY BABY

      Danty baby diddy,
    What can mammy do wid 'e,
      But sit in a lap,
      And give 'un a pap?
    Sing danty baby diddy.

THE DOVE AND THE WREN

    The Dove says, coo, coo, what shall I do?
    I can scarce maintain two.
    Pooh, pooh! says the wren, I have got ten,
    And keep them all like gentlemen.

TOMMY'S CAKE

    Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake,
    Baker's man!
    That I will master,
    As fast as I can.

    Pat it, and prick it,
    And mark it with T,
    And there will be enough
    For Jacky and me.

THE MAN OF THESSALY

    There was a man of Thessaly,
      And he was wond'rous wise,
    He jump'd into a quickset hedge,
      And scratched out both his eyes:

    But when he saw his eyes were out,
      With all his might and main
    He jump'd into another hedge,
      And scratch'd them back again.

CUSHY COW

    Cushy cow, bonny, let down thy milk,
    And I will give thee a gown of silk;
    A gown of silk and a silver tee,
    If thou wilt let down thy milk to me.

THERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN

    There was an old woman, and what do you think?
    She lived upon nothing but victuals and drink;
    And tho' victuals and drink were the chief of her diet,
    This plaguy old woman could never keep quiet.
    She went to the baker to buy her some bread,
    And when she came home her old husband was dead;
    She went to the clerk to toll the bell,
    And when she came back her old husband was well.

TELL-TALE-TIT

    Tell-tale-tit,
    Your tongue shall be slit,
    And all the dogs in our town
    Shall have a little bit.

ELIZABETH, ELSPETH, BETSY, AND BESS

    Elizabeth, Elspeth, Betsy, and Bess,
    They all went together to seek a bird's nest.

    They found a bird's nest with five eggs in,
    They all took one and left four in.

SING A SONG OF SIXPENCE

    Sing a song of sixpence,
      Pockets full of rye;
    Four and twenty blackbirds
      Baked in a pie.

    When the pie was opened
      The birds began to sing;
    Was not that a dainty dish
      To set before the king?

    The king was in his counting-house
      Counting out his money;
    The queen was in the parlour,
      Eating bread and honey;

    The maid was in the garden
      Hanging out the clothes,
    Down came a blackbird,
      And snapped off her nose.

THREE CHILDREN SLIDING

    Three children sliding on the ice
      Upon a summer's day,
    As it fell out, they all fell in,
      The rest they ran away.

    O! had these children been at school,
      Or sliding on dry ground,
    Ten thousand pounds to one penny
      They had not then been drown'd.

    Ye parents who have children dear,
        And eke ye that have none,
    If you would have them safe abroad,
        Pray keep them safe at home.

RIDE AWAY, RIDE AWAY

    Ride away, ride away, Johnny shall ride
    And he shall have pussy-cat tied to one side;
    And he shall have little dog tied to the other;
    And Johnny shall ride to see his grandmother.

MOTHER GOOSE

    Old Mother Goose, when
      She wanted to wander,
    Would ride through the air
      On a very fine gander.

    Mother Goose had a house,
      'T was built in a wood,
    Where an owl at the door
      For sentinel stood.

    She had a son Jack,
      A plain-looking lad,
    He was not very good,
      Nor yet very bad.

    She sent him to market,
      A live goose he bought;
    "Here, Mother," says he,
      "It will not go for nought."

    Jack's goose and her gander
      Grew very fond;
    They'd both eat together,
      Or swim in one pond.

    Jack found one morning,
      As I have been told,
    His goose had laid him
      An egg of pure gold.

    Jack ran to his mother,
      The news for to tell,
    She called him a good boy,
      And said it was well.

    Jack sold his gold egg
      To a rogue of a Jew,
    Who cheated him out of
      The half of his due.

    Then Jack went a-courting
      A lady so gay,
    As fair as the lily,
      As sweet as the May.

    The Jew and the Squire
      Came behind his back,
    And began to belabour
      The sides of poor Jack.

    Then old Mother Goose
      That instant came in,
    And turned her son Jack
      Into famed Harlequin.

    She then with her wand
      Touched the lady so fine,
    And turned her at once
      Into sweet Columbine.

    The gold egg into
      The sea was thrown then,--
    When Jack jumped in,
      And got the egg back again.

    The Jew got the goose,
      Which he vowed he would kill,
    Resolving at once
      His pockets to fill.

    Jack's mother came in,
      And caught the goose soon,
    And mounting its back,
      Flew up to the moon.

DEAR, DEAR!

    Dear, dear! what can the matter be?
    Two old women got up in an apple-tree;
    One came down,
    And the other stayed till Satur-day.

THE LION AND THE UNICORN

    The lion and the unicorn were fighting for the crown;
    The lion beat the unicorn all round about the town.
    Some gave them white bread, and some gave them brown;
    Some gave them plum-cake, and sent them out of town.

THE LITTLE MOUSE

    I have seen you, little mouse,
    Running all about the house,
    Through the hole, your little eye
    In the wainscot peeping sly,
    Hoping soon some crumbs to steal,
    To make quite a hearty meal.
    Look before you venture out,
    See if pussy is about,
    If she's gone, you'll quickly run
    To the larder for some fun,
    Round about the dishes creep,
    Taking into each a peep,
    To choose the daintiest that's there,
    Spoiling things you do not care.

THE NUT-TREE

    I had a little nut-tree, nothing would it bear
    But a silver nutmeg and a golden pear;
    The King of Spain's daughter came to see me,
    And all was because of my little nut-tree.
    I skipped over water, I danced over sea,
    And all the birds in the air couldn't catch me.

POLLY FLINDERS

    Little Polly Flinders
    Sat among the cinders,
      Warming her ten little toes!
    Her mother came and caught her,
    And whipped her little daughter,
      For spoiling her nice new clothes.

BRIAN O'LIN

    Brian O'Lin had no breeches to wear,
    So he bought him a sheep-skin and made him a pair,
    With the skinny side out, and the woolly side in,
    "Ah, ha, that is warm!" said Brian O'Lin.

    Brian O'Lin and his wife and wife's mother,
    They all went over a bridge together;
    The bridge was broken and they all fell in,
    "Mischief take all!" quoth Brian O'Lin.

MARGERY DAW

    See-saw, Margery Daw,
    Jacky shall have a new master.
    He shall have but a penny a day,
    Because he can't work any faster.

NONSENSE

    We are all in the dumps,
    For diamonds are trumps,
      The kittens are gone to St. Paul's,
    The babies are bit,
    The moon's in a fit,
      And the houses are built without walls.

ANOTHER FALLING OUT

    My little old man and I fell out;
    I'll tell you what 't was all about:
    I had money and he had none,
    And that's the way the noise begun.

LITTLE BOY BLUE

    Little Boy Blue, come, blow up your horn;
    The sheep's in the meadow, the cow's in the corn.
    Where's the little boy that looks after the sheep?
    Under the haystack, fast asleep.

LITTLE TOM TUCKER

    Little Tom Tucker sings for his supper.
    What shall he eat?  White bread and butter.
    How will he cut it without e'er a knife?
    How will he be married without e'er a wife?

OLD WOMAN, OLD WOMAN

    "Old woman, old woman, shall we go a-shearing?"

    "Speak a little louder, sir, I'm very thick of hearing."

    "Old woman, old woman, shall I kiss you dearly?"

    "Thank you, kind sir, I hear you very clearly."

UP HILL AND DOWN DALE

    Up hill and down dale;
    Butter is made in every vale;
    And if that Nancy Cook
    Is a good girl,
    She shall have a spouse,
    And make butter anon,
    Before her old grandmother
    Grows a young man.

LUCY LOCKET

    Lucy Locket
    Lost her pocket,
    Kitty Fisher
    Found it;
    Nothing in it,
    Nothing in it,
    But the binding
    Round it.

FORTUNE-TELLING BY DAISY PETALS

    He loves me, he don't!
    He'll have me, he won't!

    He would if he could,
    But he can't, so he don't!

BABY BUNTING

    Baby, baby bunting,
    Father's gone a-hunting,

    Mother's gone a-milking,
    Sister's gone a-silking,

    Brother's gone to buy a skin
    To wrap the baby bunting in.

THE MOUSE RAN UP THE CLOCK

    Dickory,
      Dickory,
        Dock!
    The mouse ran up the clock,
    The clock struck one,
    The mouse ran down,
    Dickory,
      Dickory,
        Dock!

ONE MISTY MOISTY MORNING

    One misty, moisty morning, when cloudy was the weather,
    There I met an old man clothed all in leather;
    He began to compliment and I began to grin,
    How do you do? how do you do? how do you do again?

THE LITTLE HUSBAND

    I had a little husband,
      No bigger than my thumb;
    I put him in a pint pot,
      And then I bade him drum.

    I bought a little horse,
      That galloped up and down;
    I bridled him, and saddled him,
      And sent him out of town.

    I gave him a pair of garters
      To tie up his little hose,
    And a little silk handkerchief
      To wipe his little nose.

TO THE HAYFIELD

    Willy boy, Willy boy, where are you going?
      I will go with you, if that I may.
    I'm going to the meadow to see them a-mowing,
      I'm going to help them make the hay.

THE MONTHS OF THE YEAR

    January brings the snow,
    Makes our feet and fingers glow.

    February brings the rain,
    Thaws the frozen lake again.

    March brings breezes, loud and shrill,
    To stir the dancing daffodil.

    April brings the primrose sweet,
    Scatters daisies at our feet.

    May brings flocks of pretty lambs,
    Skipping by their fleecy dams.

    June brings tulips, lilies, roses,
    Fills the children's hands with posies.

    Hot July brings cooling showers
    Apricots, and gillyflowers.

    August brings the sheaves of corn,
    Then the harvest home is borne.

    Warm September brings the fruit;
    Sportsmen then begin to shoot.

    Fresh October brings the pheasant;
    Then to gather nuts is pleasant.

    Dull November brings the blast;
    Then the leaves are whirling fast.

    Chill December brings the sleet,
    Blazing fire, and Christmas treat.

THE LITTLE MOPPET

    I had a little moppet,
      I put it in my pocket,
    And fed it with corn and hay,
      There came a proud beggar
      And swore he would have her,
    And stole my little moppet away.

SIMON BRODIE'S COW

    Simon Brodie had a cow;
    He lost his cow and could not find her;
    When he had done what man could do,
    The cow came home and her tail behind her.

A CARRION CROW

    A carrion crow sat on an oak,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
    Watching a tailor shape his cloak;
      Sing heigh ho, the carrion crow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do.

    Wife, bring me my old bent bow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
    That I may shoot yon carrion crow;
      Sing heigh ho, the carrion crow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do.

    The tailor he shot and missed his mark,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
    And shot his own sow quite through the heart;
      Sing heigh ho, the carrion crow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do.

    Wife, bring brandy in a spoon,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do,
    For our old sow is in a swoon,
      Sing heigh ho, the carrion crow,
      Fol de riddle, lol de riddle, hi ding do.

NANNY ETTICOAT

    Little Nanny Etticoat,
    In a white petticoat
    And a red nose;
    The longer she stands
    The shorter she grows.

GOOD-FRIDAY SONG

      Hot-cross Buns!
      Hot-cross Buns!
    One a penny, two a penny,
      Hot-cross Buns!

      Hot-cross Buns!
      Hot-cross Buns!
    If ye have no daughters,
      Give them to your sons.

I SAW A SHIP A SAILING

    I saw a ship a-sailing,
      A-sailing on the sea;
    And it was full of pretty things
      For baby and for me.

    There were sweetmeats in the cabin,
      And apples in the hold;
    The sails were made of silk,
      And the masts were made of gold.

    The four-and-twenty sailors
      That stood between the decks,
    Were four-and-twenty white mice,
      With chains about their necks.

    The captain was a duck,
      With a packet on his back;
    And when the ship began to move,
      The captain cried, "Quack, quack!"

ONE, TWO.

    One, two,
    Buckle my shoe;

    Three, four,
    Knock at the door;

    Five, six,
    Pick up sticks;

    Seven, eight,
    Lay them straight;

    Nine, ten,
    A good fat hen;

    Eleven, twelve,
    Who will delve;

    Thirteen, fourteen,
    Maids a-courting;

    Fifteen, sixteen,
    Maids in the kitchen;

    Seventeen, eighteen,
    Maids a-waiting;

    Nineteen, twenty,
    My plate's empty.

LITTLE ROBIN REDBREAST

    Little Robin Redbreast sat upon a tree;
    Up went Pussy cat and down went he.
    Down came Pussy cat, and away Robin ran;
    Says little Robin Redbreast: "Catch me if you can."

DIDDLE DIDDLE DUMPLING

    Diddle diddle dumpling, my son John,
    Went to bed with his breeches on,
    One stocking off, and one stocking on;
    Diddle diddle dumpling, my son John.

MARY, MARY

    Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
      How does your garden grow?
    Silver bells,
      and cockle shells,
    And pretty maids
      all of a row.

JACK JINGLE

    Jack Jingle went 'prentice
      To make a horse-shoe,
    He wasted the iron
      Till it would not do.
    His master came in,
      And began for to rail;
    Says Jack, "the shoe's spoiled,
      But 't will still make a nail."

    He tried at the nail,
      But, chancing to miss,
    Says, "If it won't make a nail,
      It shall yet make a hiss."
    Then into the water
      Threw the hot iron, smack!
    "Hiss!" quoth the iron;
      "I thought so," says Jack.

BETTY WINKLE'S PIG

    Little Betty Winkle she had a little pig.
    It was a little pig, not very big;
    When he was alive he lived in Clover,
    But now he's dead, and that's all over.
      Johnny Winkle he
        Sat down and cried;
      Betty Winkle she
        Lay down and died;
    So there was an end of one, two, and three,
      Johnny Winkle he,
      Betty Winkle she,
      And Piggy Wiggie!

THREE BRETHREN OUT OF SPAIN

    "We are three brethren out of Spain,
    Come to court your daughter Jane."
    "My daughter Jane she is too young;
    She has no skill in a flattering tongue."

    "Be she young, or be she old,
    It's for her gold she must be sold;
    So fare you well, my lady gay,
    We'll call again another day."

    "Turn back, turn back, thou scornful knight,
    And rub thy spurs till they be bright."
    "Of my spurs take you no thought,
    For in this land they were not bought.
    So fare you well, my lady gay,
    We'll call again another day."

    "Turn back, turn back, thou scornful knight,
    And take the fairest in your sight."
    "The fairest maid that I can see
    Is pretty Nancy; come to me."

WHAT CARE I?

    What care I how black I be?
    Twenty pounds shall marry me.
    If twenty won't, forty shall,
    For I'm my mother's bouncing girl.

THE THREE KITTENS

    Three little kittens lost their mittens,
    And they began to cry,
      "Oh, Mother dear,
      We very much fear
    That we have lost our mittens!"

      "Lost your mittens!
      You naughty kittens!
    Then you shall have no pie.
      Mee-ow, mee-ow, mee-ow!
    No, you shall have no pie.
      Mee-ow, mee-ow, mee-ow!"

    The three little kittens found their mittens,
    And they began to cry,
      "Oh, Mother dear,
      See here, see here,
    See, we have found our mittens!"

      "Put on your mittens,
      You silly kittens,
    And you shall have some pie.
      Purr-r, purr-r, purr-r!"
    "Oh, let us have the pie!
      Purr-r, purr-r, purr-r!"

    The three little kittens put on their mittens,
    And soon ate up the pie;
      "Oh, Mother dear,
      We greatly fear
    That we have soiled our mittens!"

      "Soiled your mittens!
      You naughty kittens!"
    Then they began to sigh,
      Mi-ow, mi-ow, mi-ow!
    Then they began to sigh,
      Mi-ow, mi-ow, mi-ow!

    The three little kittens washed their mittens,
    And hung them up to dry;
      "Oh, Mother dear,
      Do you not hear
    That we have washed our mittens!"

      "Washed your mittens!
      Oh, you're good kittens!
    But I smell a rat close by.
      Hush! hush! mee-ow, mee-ow."
    "We smell a rat close by,
      Mee-ow, mee-ow, mee-ow!"

THE LADY AND THE SWINE

    There was a lady loved a swine,
      Honey, quoth she,
    Pig-hog, wilt thou be mine?
      "Hoogh," quoth he.

    I'll build thee a silver stye,
      Honey, quoth she;
    And in it thou shalt lie;
      "Hoogh!" quoth he.

    Pinned with a silver pin,
      Honey, quoth she,
    That thou mayst go out and in;
      "Hoogh!" quoth he.

    Wilt thou now have me,
      Honey? quoth she;
    "Hoogh, hoogh, hoogh!" quoth he,
      And went his way.

THE JOLLY MILLER

    There was a jolly miller once
      Lived on the River Dee.
    He worked and sang from morn till night,
      No lark so blithe as he;
    And this the burden of his song
      For ever used to be:
    "I care for nobody! no, not I!
      And nobody cares for me!"

FEETIKINS

    "Feetikin, feetikin,
    When will ye gang?"
    "When the nichts turn short,
    And the days turn lang,
    I'll toddle and gang,
    Toddle and gang!"

TOM THE PIPER'S SON

    Tom, Tom, the piper's son,
    He learned to play when he was young,
    But all the tune that he could play
    Was "Over the hills and far away".
    Over the hills, and a great way off,
    And the wind will blow my top-knot off.

    Now Tom with his pipe made such a noise
    That he pleased both the girls and boys,
    And they stopped to hear him play
    "Over the hills and far away".

    Tom with his pipe did play with such skill
    That those who heard him could never stand still;
    Whenever they heard they began for to dance,
    Even pigs on their hind-legs would after him prance.

    As Dolly was milking the cow one day,
    Tom took out his pipe and began for to play;
    So Doll and the cow danced "the Cheshire round",
    Till the pail was broke, and the milk ran on the ground.

    He met old Dame Trot with a basket of eggs,
    He used his pipe, and she used her legs;
    She danced about till the eggs were all broke,
    She began for to fret, but he laughed at the joke.

    He saw a cross fellow was beating an ass,
    Heavy laden with pots, pans, dishes, and glass;
    He took out his pipe and played them a tune,
    And the jack-ass's load was lightened full soon.

DOCTOR FELL

    I do not like thee, Doctor Fell;
    The reason why I cannot tell.
    But this I know, and know full well,
    I do not like thee, Doctor Fell.

THE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER

    Please to remember
    The fifth of November,
      Gunpowder treason and plot.
    I see no reason
    Why gunpowder treason
      Should ever be forgot.
    Guy, Guy, Guy,
    Stick him up on high,
    Put him on the bonfire,
    And there let him die.

BILLY, BILLY

    "Billy, Billy, come and play,
    While the sun shines bright as day."

    "Yes, my Polly, so I will,
    For I love to please you still."

    "Billy, Billy, have you seen
    Sam and Betsy on the green?"

    "Yes, my Poll, I saw them pass,
    Skipping o'er the new-mown grass."

    "Billy, Billy, come along,
    And I will sing a pretty song."

    "O then, Polly, I'll make haste,
    Not one moment will I waste,

    But will come and hear you sing,
    And my fiddle I will bring."

MATTHEW, MARK, LUKE, AND JOHN

    Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John
    Bless the bed that I lie on!
    Four corners to my bed,
    Five angels there lie spread;
    Two at my head,
    Two at my feet,
    One at my heart
    My soul to keep.

JOHNNY

    Johnny shall have a new bonnet,
      And Johnny shall go to the fair,
    And Johnny shall have a blue ribbon
      To tie up his bonny brown hair.

    And why may not I love Johnny?
      And why may not Johnny love me?
    And why may not I love Johnny
      As well as another body?

    And here's a leg for a stocking,
      And here's a foot for a shoe,
    And he has a kiss for his daddy,
      And two for his mammy, I trow.

    And why may not I love Johnny?
      And why may not Johnny love me?
    And why may not I love Johnny
      As well as another body?

SING, SING!

    Sing, sing! what shall I sing?
    The cat's run away with the pudding-bag string.
      Do, do, what shall I do?
      The cat has bit it quite in two.

PETER PIPER

    Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper,
    A peck of pickled pepper Peter Piper picked;
    If Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper,
    Where's the peck of pickled pepper Peter Piper picked?

NANCY DAWSON

    Nancy Dawson was so fine
    She wouldn't get up to serve the swine,
    She lies in bed till eight or nine,
    So its oh! poor Nancy Dawson.

    And do you ken Nancy Dawson, honey?
    The wife who sells the barley, honey?
    She won't get up to feed her swine,
    And do you ken Nancy Dawson, honey?

LONDON BRIDGE

    London Bridge is broken down,
      Dance o'er my Lady Lee;
    London Bridge is broken down,
      With a gay lady.

    How shall we build it up again?
      Dance o'er my Lady Lee;
    How shall we build it up again?
      With a gay lady.

    Silver and gold will be stole away,
      Dance o'er my Lady Lee;
    Silver and gold will be stole away,
      With a gay lady.

    Build it up again with iron and steel,
      Dance o'er my Lady Lee;
    Build it up with iron and steel,
      With a gay lady.

    Iron and steel will bend and bow,
      Dance o'er my Lady Lee;
    Iron and steel will bend and bow,
      With a gay lady.

    Build it up with wood and clay,
      Dance o'er my Lady Lee;
    Build it up with wood and clay,
      With a gay lady.

    Wood and clay will wash away,
      Dance o'er my Lady Lee;
    Wood and clay will wash away,
      With a gay lady.

    Build it up with stone so strong,
      Dance o'er my Lady Lee;
    Huzza! 't will last for ages long,
      With a gay lady.

MASTER I HAVE

    Master I have, and I am his man,
      Gallop a dreary dun;
    Master I have, and I am his man,
    And I'll get a wife as fast as I can;
    With a heighty gaily gamberally,
    Higgledy, piggledy, niggledy, niggledy,
      Gallop a dreary dun.

ROCK-A-BY, BABY

    Rock-a-by, baby, thy cradle is green;
    Father's a nobleman, mother's a queen;
    And Betty's a lady, and wears a gold ring;
    And Johnny's a drummer, and drums for the king.

THE FARMER AND HIS DAUGHTER

    A Farmer went trotting upon his gray mare,
      Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
    With his daughter behind him so rosy and fair,
      Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

    A raven cried "croak" and they all tumbled down,
      Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
    The mare broke her knees, and the farmer his crown,
      Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

    The mischievous raven flew laughing away,
      Bumpety, bumpety, bump!
    And vowed he would serve them the same the next day,
      Lumpety, lumpety, lump!

A STRANGE SIGHT

    Upon St. Paul's steeple stands a tree,
    As full of apples as may be;
    The little boys of London Town,
    They run with hooks and pull them down;
    And then they run from hedge to hedge,
    Until they come to London Bridge.

I'LL TRY

    Two Robin Redbreasts built their nest
      Within a hollow tree;
    The hen sat quietly at home,
      The cock sang merrily;
    And all the little ones said:
      "Wee, wee, wee, wee, wee, wee."

    One day the sun was warm and bright,
      And shining in the sky,
    Cock Robin said: "My little dears,
      'Tis time you learned to fly;"
    And all the little young ones said:
      "I'll try, I'll try, I'll try."

    I know a child, and who she is
      I'll tell you by and by,
    When Mamma says "Do this," or "that,"
      She says "What for?" and "Why?"
    She'd be a better child by far
      If she would say "I'll try."

THE FOX AND THE GOOSE

    The fox and his wife they had a great strife,
    They never ate mustard in all their whole life;
    They ate their meat without fork or knife,
      And loved to be picking a bone, e-ho!

    The fox jumped up on a moonlight night;
    The stars they were shining, and all things bright;
    "Oh, ho!" said the fox, "it's a very fine night
      For me to go through the town, e-ho!"

    The fox when he came to yonder stile,
    He lifted his lugs and he listened a while;
    "Oh, ho!" said the fox, "it's but a short mile
      From this into yonder wee town, e-ho!"

    The fox when he came to the farmer's gate,
    Whom should he see but the farmer's drake;
    "I love you well for your master's sake,
      And long to be picking your bones, e-ho!"

    The gray goose she ran round the hay-stack;
    "Oh, ho!" said the fox, "you are very fat,
    You'll grease my beard and ride on my back
      From this into yonder wee town, e-ho!"

    The farmer's wife she jumped out of bed,
    And out of the window she popped her head;
    "Oh, husband! oh, husband! the geese are all dead,
      For the fox has been through the town, e-ho!"

    Then the old man got up in his red cap,
    And swore he would catch the fox in a trap;
    But the fox was too cunning, and gave him the slip,
      And ran through the town, the town, e-ho!

    When he got to the top of the hill,
    He blew his trumpet both loud and shrill,
    For joy that he was in safety still,
      And had got away through the town, e-ho!

    When the fox came back to his den,
    He had young ones both nine and ten;
    "You're welcome home, daddy; you may go again,
      If you bring us such fine meat from the town, e-ho!"

WHERE ARE YOU GOING?

    "Where are you going to, my pretty maid?"
    "I'm going a-milking, sir," she said.

    "May I go with you, my pretty maid?"
    "You're kindly welcome, sir," she said.

    "What is your father, my pretty maid?"
    "My father's a farmer, sir," she said.

    "What is your fortune, my pretty maid?"
    "My face is my fortune, sir," she said.

    "Then I can't marry you, my pretty maid!"
    "Nobody asked you, sir," she said.

THE DIVISION OF LABOUR

    The cock's on the housetop, blowing his horn;
    The bull's in the barn, a-threshing of corn;
    The maids in the meadows are making of hay;
    The ducks in the river are swimming away.

KING PIPPIN'S HALL

    King Pippin built a fine new hall,
    Pastry and pie-crust were the wall;
    Windows made of black pudding and white,
    Slates were pancakes, you ne'er saw the like.

IF

    If all the world were apple-pie,
      And all the water ink,
    What should we do for bread and cheese?
      What should we do for drink?

COFFEE AND TEA

    Molly, my sister, and I fell out,
    And what do you think it was about?
    She loved coffee and I loved tea,
    And that was the reason we couldn't agree.

A WONDERFUL THING

    As I went to Bonner,
      I met a pig
      Without a wig,
    Upon my word and honour.

MY BOY TAMMIE

    "Where have you been all day,
      My boy Tammie?"

    "I've been all the day
    Courting of a lady gay;
    But oh, she's too young
    To be taken from her mammy!"

    "What work can she do,
      My boy Tammie?
    Can she bake and can she brew,
      My boy Tammie?"

    "She can brew and she can bake,
    And she can make our wedding cake;
    But oh, she's too young
    To be taken from her mammy!"

    "What age may she be?
    What age may she be,
      My boy Tammie?"

    "Twice two, twice seven,
    Twice ten, twice eleven;
    But oh, she's too young
    To be taken from her mammy!"

THE LITTLE MAN WITH A GUN

    There was a little man, and he had a little gun,
      And his bullets were made of lead, lead, lead;
    He went to the brook, and saw a little duck,
      And shot it right through the head, head, head.

    He carried it home to his old wife Joan,
      And bade her a fire to make, make, make,
    To roast the little duck he had shot in the brook,
      And he'd go and fetch the drake, drake, drake.

    The drake was a-swimming, with his curly tail;
      The little man made it his mark, mark, mark.
    He let off his gun, but he fired too soon,
      And the drake flew away with a quack, quack, quack.

IF WISHES WERE HORSES

    If wishes were horses, beggars would ride;
    If turnips were watches, I would wear one by my side.

CLAP HANDIES

    Clap, clap handies,
    Mammie's wee, wee ain;
    Clap, clap handies,
    Daddie's comin' hame;
    Hame till his bonny wee bit laddie;
    Clap, clap handies,
    My wee, wee ain.

TAFFY WAS A WELSHMAN

    Taffy was a Welshman, Taffy was a thief;
    Taffy came to my house and stole a piece of beef;
    I went to Taffy's house, Taff was not at home;
    Taffy came to my house and stole a marrow bone.

    I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was not in;
    Taffy came to my house and stole a silver pin;
    I went to Taffy's house, Taffy was in bed,
    I took up the beef bone and flung it at his head.

THERE WAS A MAN

    There was a man, and he had naught,
      And robbers came to rob him;
    He crept up to the chimney pot,
      And then they thought they had him.

    But he got down on t' other side,
      And then they could not find him;
    He ran fourteen miles in fifteen days,
      And never looked behind him.

JACK'S FIDDLE

    Jacky, come give me thy fiddle,
      If ever thou mean to thrive.
    Nay, I'll not give my fiddle
      To any man alive.

    If I should give my fiddle
      They'll think that I'm gone mad;
    For many a joyful day
      My fiddle and I have had.

A WAS AN ARCHER

    A was an Archer, and shot at a Frog

    B was a Butcher, and kept a Bull-dog

    C was a Captain, all covered with Lace

    D was a Drunkard, and had a Red Face

    E was an Esquire, with insolent Brow

    F was a Farmer, and followed the Plough

    G was a Gamester, who had but Ill Luck

    H was a Hunter, and hunted a Buck

    I was an Innkeeper, who loved to Bouse

    J was a Joiner, and built up a House

    K was King William, once governed this Land

    L was a Lady, who had a White Hand

    M was a Miser, and hoarded up Gold

    N was a Nobleman, Gallant and Bold

    O was an Oyster Wench, and went about Town

    P was a Parson, and wore a Black Gown

    Q was a Queen, who was fond of good Flip

    R was a Robber, and wanted a Whip

    S was a Sailor, and spent all he got

    T was a Tinker, and mended a Pot

    U was a Usurer, a miserable Elf

    V was a Vintner, who drank all Himself

    W was a Watchman, and guarded the Door

    X was Expensive, and so became Poor

    Y was a Youth, that did not love School

    Z was a Zany, a silly old Fool

THREE SHIPS

    I saw three ships come sailing by,
      Sailing by, sailing by,
    I saw three ships come sailing by,
      On New-Year's day in the morning.

    And what do you think was in them then,
      In them then, in them then?
    And what do you think was in them then,
      On New-Year's day in the morning?

    Three pretty girls were in them then,
      In them then, in them then,
    Three pretty girls were in them then,
      On New-Year's day in the morning.

    And one could whistle, and one could sing,
      And one could play on the violin,
    Such joy there was at my wedding,
      On New-Year's day in the morning.

THE CROOKED SONG

    There was a crooked man, and he went a crooked mile,
    He found a crooked sixpence beside a crooked stile;
    He bought a crooked cat, which caught a crooked mouse,
    And they all lived together in a little crooked house.

A, B, C

    A, B, C, tumble down D,
    The cat's in the cupboard
    And can't see me.

COMICAL FOLK

    In a cottage in Fife
      Lived a man and his wife,
    Who, believe me, were comical folk;
      For, to people's surprise,
      They both saw with their eyes,
    And their tongues moved whenever they spoke.
      When they were asleep,
      I'm told--that to keep
    Their eyes open they could not contrive;
      They both walked on their feet,
      And 't was thought what they eat
    Helped, with drinking, to keep them alive.

DING, DONG, BELL.

    Ding, dong, bell, the cat is in the well!
    Who put her in?  Little Johnny Green.
    Who pulled her out?
    Little Tommy Stout.
    What a naughty boy was that,
    To try to drown poor pussy cat,
    Who never did him any harm,
    But killed the mice in his father's barn!

BOBBY SNOOKS

    Little Bobby Snooks was fond of his books,
     And loved by his usher and master;

    But naughty Jack Spry, he got a black eye,
     And carries his nose in a plaster.

SIX LITTLE MICE

    Six little mice sat down to spin,
    Pussy passed by, and she peeped in.
    "What are you at, my little men?"
    "Making coats for gentlemen."
    "Shall I come in and bite off your threads?"
    "No, no, Miss Pussy, you'll bite off our heads."
    "Oh, no, I'll not, I'll help you spin."
    "That may be so, but you don't come in."

WING, WANG, WADDLE, OH

    My father he died, but I can't tell you how,
    He left me six horses to drive in my plough;
      With my wing, wang, waddle, oh,
      Jack sing saddle, oh,
      Blowsey boys buble, oh,
      Under the broom.

    I sold my six horses and I bought me a cow,
    I'd fain have made a fortune but did not know how;
      With my wing, wang, waddle, oh,
      Jack sing saddle, oh,
      Blowsey boys buble, oh,
      Under the broom.

    I sold my cow, and I bought me a calf;
    I'd fain have made a fortune but lost the best half;
      With my wing, wang, waddle, oh,
      Jack sing saddle, oh,
      Blowsey boys buble, oh,
      Under the broom.

    I sold my calf, and I bought me a cat;
    A pretty thing she was, in my chimney corner sat;
      With my wing, wang, waddle, oh,
      Jack sing saddle oh,
      Blowsey boys buble, oh,
      Under the broom.

    I sold my cat and bought me a mouse;
    He carried fire in his tail, and burnt down my house;
      With my wing, wang, waddle, oh,
      Jack sing saddle, oh,
      Blowsey boys buble, oh,
      Under the broom.

THE HART

    The hart he loves the high wood,
      The hare she loves the hill;
    The Knight he loves his bright sword,
      The Lady--loves her will.

OLD CHAIRS TO MEND

    If I'd as much money as I could spend,
    I never would cry old chairs to mend;
    Old chairs to mend, old chairs to mend;
    I never would cry old chairs to mend.

    If I'd as much money as I could tell,
    I never would cry old clothes to sell;
    Old clothes to sell, old clothes to sell;
    I never would cry old clothes to sell.

SEE, SEE!

    See, see! what shall I see?
    A horse's head where his tail should be!

OLD MOTHER HUBBARD

    Mother Hubbard's old dog Tray,
    If this account be true,
    Had not an equal, I dare say,
    Come tell me, what think you?

    Old Mother Hubbard
    Went to her cupboard,
      To give her poor dog a bone;

    When she came there
    The cupboard was bare,
      And so the poor dog had none.

    She went to the baker's
      To buy him some bread,
    When she came back
      The dog was dead!

    She went to the undertaker's
      To buy him a coffin;
    When she came back
      The dog was laughing.

    She took a clean dish
      To get him some tripe;
    When she came back
      He was smoking his pipe.

    She went to the ale-house
      To get him some beer;
    When she came back
      The dog sat in a chair.

    She went to the tavern
      For white wine and red;
    When she came back
      The dog stood on his head.

    She went to the hatter's
      To buy him a hat;
    When she came back
      He was feeding the cat.

    She went to the barber's
      To buy him a wig;
    When she came back
      He was dancing a jig.

    She went to the fruiterer's
      To buy him some fruit;
    When she came back
      He was playing the flute.

    She went to the tailor's
      To buy him a coat;
    When she came back
      He was riding a goat.

    She went to the cobbler's
      To buy him some shoes;
    When she came back
      He was reading the news.

    She went to the sempster's
      To buy him some linen;
    When she came back
      The dog was spinning.

    She went to the hosier's
      To buy him some hose;
    When she came back
      He was dressed in his clothes.

    The dame made a curtsy,
      The dog made a bow;
    The dame said, "Your servant,"
      The dog said, "Bow-wow!"

TO BABYLON

    How many miles is it to Babylon?
      Threescore miles and ten.
    Can I get there by candle-light?
      Yes, and back again!
    If your heels are nimble and light,
    You may get there by candle-light.

MY BLACK HEN

    Hickety, pickety, my black hen,
    She lays eggs for gentlemen;
    Gentlemen come every day
    To see what my black hen doth lay.

I'LL TELL YOU A STORY

      I'll tell you a story
      About Jack a Nory--
    And now my story's begun:

      I'll tell you another,
      About Jack his brother--
    And now my story's done.Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

                          VERSES FOR CHILDREN

                                  AND

                            SONGS FOR MUSIC

                                   BY

                        JULIANA HORATIA EWING.

                                LONDON:

              SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE,

                      NORTHUMBERLAND AVENUE, W.C.

                    NEW YORK: E. & J.B. YOUNG & CO.

[Published under the direction of the General Literature

PREFACE

It has been decided in publishing this volume to reproduce the
illustrations with which the verses originally appeared in _Aunt Judy's
Magazine_. In all cases Mrs. Ewing wrote the lines to fit the pictures,
and it is worthy of note to observe how closely she has introduced every
detail into her words. Most of the woodcuts are by German artists, Oscar
Pletsch, Fedor Flinzer, and others; but the frontispiece is from an
original sketch by Mr. Gordon Browne. In accordance with his special
desire, it has only been used for Mrs. Ewing's poem, as the Convalescent
was a little friend of the artist, who did not live to complete his
recovery. The poem is the last that Mrs. Ewing wrote for children, and
it was penned when she herself was enduring the discomforts of
convalescence with all the courage she so warmly advocates.

Mr. Randolph Caldecott's illustrations to "Mother's Birthday Review"
first appeared in his _Sketch Book_, but the letterpress that
accompanied them was very brief, and Mrs. Ewing could not resist asking
permission to write some verses to the pictures, and publish them in
_Aunt Judy's Magazine_. This favour was kindly granted, and by Mrs.
Caldecott's further kindness the sketches are again used here.

The contents of this volume have been arranged chronologically as far as
is possible.

"The Willow Man" and "Grandmother's Spring" were both written to protest
shows that Mrs. Ewing had learnt this lesson herself in childhood. My
Father has lately recalled an incident which he believes first roused
our Mother to teach the lesson to us. They were driving to Sheffield one
day, when on Bolsover Hill they saw a well-known veterinary surgeon of
the district, Mr. Peech, who had dismounted from his horse, and was
carefully taking up a few roots of white violets from a bank where they
grew in some profusion. He showed Mrs. Gatty what he was gathering, but
told her he was taking care to _leave a bit behind_. This happened fully
forty years ago, long before the Selborne and other Societies for the
preservation of rare plants and birds had come into existence, and
Mother was much impressed and pleased by Mr. Peech's delicate
scrupulousness.

"A Soldier's Children" was written in 1879, whilst many friends were
fighting in South Africa, and ten years before a story bearing the same
name was issued by the writer of _Bootles' Baby_.

The "Songs for Music" appeared in 1874 in a volume called _Songs by Four
Friends_, except the two last poems, "Anemones" and "Autumn Tints." The
former was given by Mrs. Ewing to her brother, Mr. Alfred Scott-Gatty,
to set to music, and it has recently been published by Messrs. Boosey.
"Autumn Tints" was found amongst Mrs. Ewing's papers after her death,
and is now printed for the first time.

HORATIA K.F. EDEN.

_June 1895._

CONTENTS.

VERSES FOR CHILDREN.

    THE BURIAL OF THE LINNET

    MASTER FRITZ

    THE WILLOW-MAN

    OUR GARDEN

    A FRIEND IN THE GARDEN

    THREE LITTLE NEST BIRDS

    DOLLY'S LULLABY: A NURSERY RHYME

    A HERO TO HIS HOBBY-HORSE

    THE DOLLS' WASH

    HOUSE-BUILDING AND REPAIRS

    THE BLUE-BELLS ON THE LEA

    AN ONLY CHILD'S TEA-PARTY

    PAPA POODLE

    GRANDMOTHER'S SPRING

    BIG SMITH

    KIT'S CRADLE

    THE MILL STREAM

    BOY AND SQUIRREL

    LITTLE MASTER TO HIS BIG DOG

    A SWEET LITTLE DEAR

    BLUE AND RED; OR, THE DISCONTENTED LOBSTER

    THE YELLOW FLY: A TALE WITH A STING IN IT

    CANADA HOME

    THE POET AND THE BROOK: A TALE OF TRANSFORMATIONS

    A SOLDIER'S CHILDREN

    "TOUCH HIM IF YOU DARE:" A TALE OF THE HEDGE

    MOTHER'S BIRTHDAY REVIEW

    THE PROMISE

    CONVALESCENCE

    THE ADVENTURES OF AN ELF. (_Translated_)

SONGS FOR MUSIC.

    SERENADE

    MAIDEN WITH THE GIPSY LOOK

    AH! WOULD I COULD FORGET

    MADRIGAL

    THE ELLEREE: A SONG OF SECOND SIGHT

    OTHER STARS

    FADED FLOWERS

    SPEED WELL

    HOW MANY YEARS AGO?

    "WITH A DIFFERENCE"

    THE LILY OF THE LAKE

    FROM FLEETING PLEASURES: A REQUIEM FOR ONE ALIVE

    THE RUNAWAY'S RETURN

    FANCY FREE: A GIRL'S SONG

    MY LOVE'S GIFT

    ANEMONES

    AUTUMN LEAVES

HYMNS.

    CONFIRMATION

    WHITSUNTIDE

    CHRISTMAS WISHES: A CAROL

    TEACH ME. (_From the Danish_)

VERSES FOR CHILDREN.

THE BURIAL OF THE LINNET.

    Found in the garden--dead in his beauty.
      Ah! that a linnet should die in the spring!
    Bury him, comrades, in pitiful duty,
      Muffle the dinner-bell, solemnly ring.

    Bury him kindly--up in the corner;
      Bird, beast, and gold-fish are sepulchred there;
    Bid the black kitten march as chief mourner,
      Waving her tail like a plume in the air.

    Bury him nobly--next to the donkey;
      Fetch the old banner, and wave it about:
    Bury him deeply--think of the monkey,
      Shallow his grave, and the dogs got him out.

    Bury him softly--white wool around him,
      Kiss his poor feathers,--the first kiss and last;
    Tell his poor widow kind friends have found him:
      Plant his poor grave with whatever grows fast.

    Farewell, sweet singer! dead in thy beauty,
      Silent through summer, though other birds sing;
    Bury him, comrades, in pitiful duty,
      Muffle the dinner-bell, mournfully ring.

    Fritz and I are not brother and sister, but we're next-door
             neighbours; for we both live next door.
    I mean we both live next door to each other; for I live at
             number three, and Fritz and Nickel the dog live at number
             four.
    In summer we climb through the garret windows and sit
             together on the leads,
    And if the sun is too hot Mother lends us one big kerchief
             to put over both our heads.
    Sometimes she gives us tea under the myrtle tree in the big
             pot that stands in the gutter.
    (One slice each, and I always give Fritz the one that has
             the most butter.)
    In winter we sit on the little stool by the stove at number four;
    For when it's cold Fritz doesn't like to go out to come in next door.
    It was one day in spring that he said, "I should like to
             have a house to myself with you Grethel, and Nickel." And I
             said, "Thank you, Fritz."
    And he said, "If you'll come in at tea-time and sit by the stove, I'll
             tell you tales that'll frighten you into fits.
    About boys who ran away from their homes, and were taken by robbers,
             and run after by wolves, and altogether in a dreadful state.
    I saw the pictures of it in a book I was looking in, to see where
             perhaps I should like to emigrate.
    I've not quite settled whether I shall, or be cast away on a desert
             island, or settle down nearer home;
    But you'd better come in and hear about it, and then, wherever it is,
             you'll be sure to be ready to come."
    So I took my darling Katerina in my arms, and we went in to tea.
    I love Katerina, though she lost her head long ago, poor thing; but
             Fritz made me put her off my knee,
    For he said, "When you're hushabying that silly old doll I know you're
             not attending to me.
    Now look here, Grethel, I think I have made up my mind that we won't
             go far;
    For we can have a house, and I can be master of it just as well where
             we are.
    Under the stairs would be a good place for a house for us if there's
             room.
    It's very dirty, but you're the housewife now, and you must sweep it
             out well with the broom.
    I shall expect you to keep my house very comfortable, and have my meals
             ready when there's anything to eat;
    And when Nickel and I come back from playing outside, you may peep out
             and pretend you're watching for us coming up the street.
    You've kept your apple, I see--I've eaten mine--well, it will be
             something to make a start,
    And I'll put by some of my cake, if you'll keep some of yours, and
             remember Nickel must have part.
    I call it your cake and your apple, but of course now you're my
             housewife everything belongs to me;
    But I shall give you the management of it, and you must make it go as
             far as you can amongst three.
    And if you make nice feasts every day for me and Nickel, and never
             keep us waiting for our food,
    And always do everything I want, and attend to everything I say, I'm
             sure I shall almost always be good.
    And if I am naughty now and then, it'll most likely be your fault;
             and, if it isn't, you mustn't mind;
    For even if I seem to be cross, you ought to know that I mean to be
             kind.
    And I'm sure you'll like combing Nickel's hair for my sake; it'll be
             something for you to do, and it bothers me so!
    But it must be done regularly, for if it's not, his curls tangle into
             lugs as they grow.
    I think that's all, dear Grethel, for I love you so much that I'm sure
             to be easy to please.
    Only remember--it's a trifle--but when I want you, never keep that
             headless doll on your knees.
    I'd much rather not have her in my house--there, don't cry! if you
             will have her, I suppose it must be;
    Though I can't think what you want with Katerina when you've got
             Nickel and me."
    So I said, "Thank you, dear Fritz, for letting me bring her, for I've
             had her so long I shouldn't like to part with her now;
    And I'll try and do everything you want as well as I can, now you've
             told me how."
    But next morning I heard Fritz's garret-window open, and he put out
             his head,
    And shouted, "Grethel! Grethel! I want you. Be quick! Haven't you got
             out of bed?"
    I ran to the window and said, "What is it, dear Fritz?" and he said,
             "I want to tell you that I've changed my mind.
    Hans-Wandermann is here, and he says there are real sapphires on the
             beach; so I'm off to see what I can find."
    "Oh, Fritz!" I said, "can't I come too?" but he said, "You'd better
             not, you'll only be in the way.
    You can stop quietly at home with Katerina, and you may have Nickel
             too, if he'll stay."
    But Nickel wouldn't. I give him far more of my cake than Fritz does,
             but he likes Fritz better than me.
    So dear Katerina and I had breakfast together on the leads under the
             old myrtle tree.

    THE WILLOW-MAN.

    There once was a Willow, and he was very old,
    And all his leaves fell off from him, and left him in the cold;
    But ere the rude winter could buffet him with snow,
    There grew upon his hoary head a crop of Mistletoe.

    All wrinkled and furrowed was this old Willow's skin,
    His taper fingers trembled, and his arms were very thin;
    Two round eyes and hollow, that stared but did not see,
    And sprawling feet that never walked, had this most ancient tree.

    A Dame who dwelt near was the only one who knew
    That every year upon his head the Christmas berries grew;
    And when the Dame cut them, she said--it was her whim--
    "A merry Christmas to you, Sir!" _and left a bit for him_.

    "Oh, Granny dear, tell us," the children cried, "where we
    May find the shining Mistletoe that grows upon the tree?"
    At length the Dame told them, but cautioned them to mind
    To greet the Willow civilly, _and leave a bit behind_.

    "Who cares," said the children, "for this old Willow-man?
    We'll take the Mistletoe, and he may catch us if he can."
    With rage the ancient Willow shakes in every limb,
    For they have taken all, and _have not left a bit for him_!

    Then bright gleamed the holly, the Christmas berries shone,
    But in the wintry wind without the Willow-man did moan:
    "Ungrateful, and wasteful! the mystic Mistletoe
    A hundred years hath grown on me, but never more shall grow."

    A year soon passed by, and the children came once more,
    But not a sprig of Mistletoe the aged Willow bore.
    Each slender spray pointed; he mocked them in his glee,
    And chuckled in his wooden heart, that ancient Willow-tree.

    MORAL.

    Oh, children, who gather the spoils of wood and wold,
    From selfish greed and wilful waste your little hands withhold.
    Though fair things be common, this moral bear in mind,
    "Pick thankfully and modestly, and leave a bit behind."

    OUR GARDEN.

    The winter is gone; and at first Jack and I were sad,
    Because of the snow-man's melting, but now we are glad;
    For the spring has come, and it's warm, and we're allowed to garden
             in the afternoon;
    And summer is coming, and oh, how lovely our flowers will be in June!
    We are so fond of flowers, it makes us quite happy to think
    Of our beds--all colours--blue, white, yellow, purple, and pink,
    Scarlet, lilac, and crimson! And we're fond of sweet scents as well,
    And mean to have pinks, roses, sweet peas, mignonette, clove
             carnations, musk, and everything good to smell;
    Lavender, rosemary, and we should like a lemon-scented verbena, and
             a big myrtle tree!
    And then if we could get an old "preserved-ginger" pot, and some
             bay-salt, we could make _pot-pourri_.
    Jack and I have a garden, though it's not so large as the big one,
             you know;
    But whatever can be got to grow in a garden we mean to grow.
    We've got Bachelor's Buttons, and London Pride, and Old Man, and
             everything that's nice:
    And last year Jack sowed green peas for our dolls' dinners, but they
             were eaten up by the mice.
    And he would plant potatoes in furrows, which made the garden in a
             mess,
    So this year we mean to have no kitchen-garden but mustard and cress.
    One of us plants, and the other waters, but Jack likes the
             watering-pot;
    And then when my turn comes to water he says it's too hot!
    We sometimes quarrel about the garden, and once Jack hit me with
             the spade;
    So we settled to divide it in two by a path up the middle, and
             that's made.
    We want some yellow sand now to make the walk pretty, but there's none
             about here,
    So we mean to get some in the old carpet-bag, if we go to the seaside
             this year.
    On Monday we went to the wood and got primrose plants and a sucker of
             a dog-rose;
    It looks like a green stick in the middle of the bed at present; but
             wait till it blows!
    The primroses were in full flower, and the rose ought to flower soon;
    You've no idea how lovely they are in that wood in June!
    The primroses look quite withered now, I am sorry to say,
    But that is not our fault but Nurse's, and it shows how hard it is to
             garden when you can't have your own way.
    We planted them carefully, and were just going to water them all in
             a lump,
    When Nurse fetched us both indoors, and put us to bed for wetting our
             pinafores at the pump.
    It's very hard, and I'm sure the gardener's plants wouldn't grow any
             better than ours,
    If Nurse fetched him in and sent him to bed just when he was going to
             water his flowers.
    We've got Blue Nemophila and Mignonette, and Venus's Looking-glass,
             and many other seeds;
    The Nemophila comes up spotted, which is how we know it from the weeds.
    At least it's sure to come up if the hens haven't scratched it up
             first.
    But when it is up the cats roll on it, and that is the worst!
    I sowed a ring of sweet peas, and the last time I looked they were
             coming nicely on,
    Just sprouting white, and I put them safely back; but when Jack looked
             he found they were gone.
    Jack made a great many cuttings, but he has had rather bad luck,
    I've looked at them every day myself, and not one of them has struck.
    The gardener gave me a fine moss-rose, but Jack took it to his side,
    I kept moving it back, but he took it again, and at last it died.
    But now we've settled to dig up the path, and have the bed as it was
             before,
    So everything will belong to us both, and we shan't ever quarrel
             any more.
    It is such a long time, too, to wait for the sand, and perhaps
             sea-sand does best on the shore.
    We're going to take everything up, for it can't hurt the plants to
             stand on the grass for a minute,
    And you really can't possibly rake a bed smooth with so many
             things in it.
    We shall dig it all over, and get leaf-mould from the wood, and hoe
             up the weeds,
    And when it's tidy we shall plant, and put labels, and strike cuttings,
             and sow seeds.
    We are so fond of flowers, Jack and I often dream at night
    Of getting up and finding our garden ablaze with all colours, blue,
             red, yellow, and white.
    And Midsummer's coming, and big brother Tom will sit under the tree
    With his book, and Mary will beg sweet nosegays of Jack and me.
    The worst is, we often start for the seaside about Midsummer Day,
    And no one takes care of our gardens whilst we are away.
    But if we sow lots of seeds, and take plenty of cuttings before we
             leave home,
    When we come back, our flowers will be all in full bloom,
    Bright, bright sunshine above, and sweet, sweet flowers below.
    Come, oh Midsummer, quickly come! and go quickly, Midsummer, go!

    P.S. It is so tiresome! Jack wants to build a green-house now,
    He has found some bits of broken glass, and an old window-frame, and
             he says he knows how.
    I tell him there's not glass enough, but he says there's lots,
    And he's taken all the plants that belong to the bed and put
             them in pots.

    A FRIEND IN THE GARDEN.

    He is not John the gardener,
      And yet the whole day long
    Employs himself most usefully,
      The flower-beds among.

    He is not Tom the pussy-cat,
      And yet the other day,
    With stealthy stride and glistening eye,
      He crept upon his prey.

    He is not Dash the dear old dog,
      And yet, perhaps, if you
    Took pains with him and petted him,
      You'd come to love him too.

    He's not a Blackbird, though he chirps,
      And though he once was black;
    And now he wears a loose grey coat,
      All wrinkled on the back.

    He's got a very dirty face,
      And very shining eyes!
    He sometimes comes and sits indoors;
      He looks--and p'r'aps is--wise.

    But in a sunny flower-bed
      He has his fixed abode;
    He eats the things that eat my plants--
      He is a friendly TOAD.

    THREE LITTLE NEST BIRDS.

              We meant to be very kind,
                  But if ever we find
    Another soft, grey-green, moss-coated, feather-lined nest in a hedge,
              We have taken a pledge--
    Susan, Jemmy, and I--with remorseful tears, at this very minute,
    That if there are eggs or little birds in it--
    Robin or wren, thrush, chaffinch or linnet--
                We'll leave them there
                To their mother's care.
    There were three of us--Kate, and Susan, and Jem--
                And three of them--
    I don't know _their_ names, for they couldn't speak,
    Except with a little imperative squeak,
                Exactly like Poll,
                Susan's squeaking doll;
    But squeaking dolls will lie on the shelves
    For years and never squeak of themselves:
    The reason we like little birds so much better than toys
    Is because they are _really_ alive, and know how to make a noise.

    There were three of us, and three of them;
    Kate,--that is I,--and Susan, and Jem.
                Our mother was busy making a pie,
                And theirs, we think, was up in the sky;
    But for all Susan, Jemmy, or I can tell,
    She may have been getting their dinner as well.
              They were left to themselves (and so were we)
              In a nest in the hedge by the willow tree;
    And when we caught sight of three red little fluff-tufted, hazel-eyed,
             open-mouthed, pink-throated heads, we all shouted for glee.

    The way we really did wrong was this:
              We took them for Mother to kiss,
              And she told us to put them back;
    Whilst out on the weeping-willow _their_ mother was crying "Alack!"
              We really heard
    Both what Mother told us to do, and the voice of the mother-bird.
              But we three--that is Susan and I and Jem--
              Thought we knew better than either of them:
    And in spite of our mother's command and the poor bird's cry,
    We determined to bring up her three little nestlings ourselves
             on the sly.

              We each took one,
              It did seem such excellent fun!
              Susan fed hers on milk and bread,
              Jem got wriggling worms for his instead.
                  I gave mine meat,
    For, you know, I thought, "Poor darling pet! why shouldn't it have
             roast beef to eat?"
    But, oh dear! oh dear! oh dear! how we cried
    When in spite of milk and bread and worms and roast beef, the
             little birds died!
              It's a terrible thing to have heart-ache,
              I thought mine would break
              As I heard the mother-bird's moan,
    And looked at the grey-green, moss-coated, feather-lined nest she had
             taken such pains to make,
    And her three little children dead, and as cold as stone.
              Mother said, and it's sadly true,
              "There are some wrong things one can never undo."
              And nothing that we could do or say
              Would bring life back to the birds that day.

    The bitterest tears that we could weep
    Wouldn't wake them out of their stiff cold sleep.
                              But then,
    We--Susan and Jem and I--mean never to be so selfish, and wilful,
             and cruel again.
    And we three have buried those other three
    In a soft, green, moss-covered, flower-lined grave at the foot of
             the willow tree.
              And all the leaves which its branches shed
              We think are tears because they are dead.

    DOLLY'S LULLABY.

    A NURSERY RHYME

    Hush-a-by, Baby! _Your_ baby, Mamma,
    No one but pussy may go where you are;
    Soft-footed pussy alone may pass by,
    For, if he wakens, your baby will cry.

    Hush-a-by, Dolly! My baby are you,
    Yellow-haired Dolly, with eyes of bright blue;
    Though I say "Hush!" because Mother does so,
    You wouldn't cry like her baby, I know!

    Hush-a-by, Baby! Mamma walks about,
    Sings to you softly, or rocks you without;
    If you slept sounder, then I might walk too,
    Sing to my Dolly, and rock her like you!

    Hush-a-by Dolly! Sleep sweetly, my pet!
    Dear Mamma made you this fine berceaunette,
    Muslin and rose-colour, ribbon and lace;
    When had a baby a cosier place?

    Hush-a-by, Baby! the baby who cries.
    Why, dear Mamma, don't you shut baby's eyes?
    Pull down his wire, as I do, you see;
    Lay him by Dolly, and come out with me.

    Hush-a-by, Dolly! Mamma will not speak;
    You, my dear baby, would sleep for a week.
    Poor Mamma's baby allows her no rest,
    Hush-a-by, Dolly, of babies the best!

    A HERO TO HIS HOBBY-HORSE.

    Hear me now, my hobby-horse, my steed of prancing paces!
    Time is it that you and I won something more than races.
    I have got a fine cocked hat, with feathers proudly waving;
    Out into the world we'll go, both death and danger braving.

    Doubt not that I know the way--the garden-gate is clapping:
    Who forgot to lock it last deserves his fingers slapping.
    When they find we can't be found, oh won't there be a chorus!
    You and I may laugh at that, with all the world before us.

    All the world, the great green world that lies beyond the paling!
    All the sea, the great round sea where ducks and drakes are sailing!
    I a knight, my charger thou, together we will wander
    Out into that grassy waste where dwells the Goosey Gander.

    Months ago, my faithful steed, that Goose attacked your master;
    How it hissed, and how I cried! It ran, but I ran faster!
    Down upon my face I fell, its awful wings were o'er me,
    Mother came and picked me up, and off to bed she bore me.

    Months have passed, my faithful steed, both you and I are older,
    Sheathless is my wooden sword, my heart I think is bolder.
    Always ready bridled thou, with reins of crimson leather;
    Woe betide the Goose to-day who meets us both together!

    Up then now, my hobby-horse, my steed of prancing paces!
    Time it is that you and I won something more than races.
    I a knight, my charger thou, together we will wander
    Out into that grassy waste where dwells the Goosey Gander.

    THE DOLLS' WASH.

    Sally is the laundress, and every Saturday
    She sends our clean clothes up from the wash, and Nurse puts them away.
    Sometimes Sally is very kind, but sometimes she's as cross as a Turk;
    When she's good-humoured we like to go and watch her at work.
    She has tubs and a copper in the wash-house, and a great big fire and
             plenty of soap;
    And outside is the drying-ground with tall posts, and pegs bought from
             the gipsies, and long lines of rope.
    The laundry is indoors with another big fire, and long tables, and a
             lot of irons, and a crimping-machine;
    And horses (not live ones with tails, but clothes-horses) and the same
             starch that is used by the Queen.
    Sally wears pattens in the wash-house, and turns up her sleeves, and
             splashes, and rubs,
    And makes beautiful white lather which foams over the tops of the tubs,
    Like waves at the seaside dashing against the rocks, only not so
             strong.
    If I were Sally I should sit and blow soap-bubbles all the day long.
    Sally is angry sometimes because of the way we dirty our frocks,
    Making mud pies, and rolling down the lawn, and climbing trees, and
             scrambling over the rocks.
    She says we do it on purpose, and never try to take care;
    But if things have got to go to the wash, what can it matter how
             dirty they are?
    Last week Mary and I got a lot of kingcups from the bog, and I
             carried them home in my skirt;
    It was the end of the week, and our frocks were done, so we didn't
             mind about the dirt.
    But Sally was as cross as two sticks, and won't wash our dolls'
             clothes any more--so she said,--
    But never mind, for we'll ask Mamma if we may have a real Dolls'
             Wash of our own instead.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Mamma says we may on one condition, to which we agree;
    We're to _really_ wash the dolls' clothes, and make them just
             what clean clothes should be.
    She says we must wash them thoroughly, which of course we intend to do,
    We mean to rub, wring, dry, mangle, starch, iron, and air them too.
    A regular wash must be splendid fun, and everybody knows
    That any one in the world can wash out a few dirty clothes.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Well, we've had the Dolls' Wash, but it's only pretty good fun.
    We're glad we've had it, you know, but we're gladder still that
             it's done.
    As we wanted to have as big a wash as we could, we collected
             everything we could muster,
    From the dolls' bed dimity hangings to Victoria's dress, which I'd
             used as a duster.
    It was going to the wash, and Mary and I were house-maids--fancy
             house-maids, I mean--
    And I took it to dust the bookshelf, for I knew it would come back
             clean.
    Well, we washed in the wash-hand-basin, which holds a good deal, as
             the things are small;
    We made a glorious lather, and splashed half over the floor; but the
             clothes weren't white after all.
    However, we hung them out in our drying-ground in the garden, which
             we made with dahlia-sticks and long strings,
    And then Dash went and knocked over one of the posts, and down in the
             dirt went our things!
    So we washed them again and hung them on the towel-horse, and most of
             them came all right,
    But Victoria's muslin dress--though I rinsed it again and again--will
             never dry white!
    And the grease-spots on Mary's doll's dress don't seem to come out, and
             we can't think how they got there;
    Unless it was when we made that Macassar-oil, because she has
             real hair.
    I knew mine was going to the wash, but I'm sorry I used it as a duster
             before it went;
    We think dirty clothes perhaps shouldn't be _too_ dirty before they
             are sent.
    We had sad work in trying to make the starch--I wonder what the Queen
             does with hers?
    I stirred mine up with a candle, like Sally, but it only made it worse;
    So we had to ask Mamma's leave to have ours made by Nurse.
    Nurse makes beautiful starch--like water-arrowroot when you're ill--in
             a minute or two.
    It's a very odd thing that what looks so easy should be so difficult
             to do!
    Then Mary put the iron down to heat, but as soon as she'd turned
             her back,
    A jet of gas came sputtering out of the coals and smoked it black.
    We dared not ask Sally for another, for we knew she'd refuse it,
    So we had to clean this one with sand and brown-paper before we
             could use it.
    It was very hard work, but I rubbed till I made it shine;
    Yet as soon as it got on a damped "fine thing" it left a brown line.
    I rubbed it for a long, long time before it would iron without a mark,
    But it did at last, and we finished our Dolls' Wash just before dark.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Sally's very kind, for she praised our wash, and she has taken away
    Victoria's dress to do it again; and I really must say
    She was right when she said, "You see, young ladies, a week's wash
             isn't all play."
    Our backs ache, our faces are red, our hands are all wrinkled, and
             we've rubbed our fingers quite sore;
    We feel very sorry for Sally every week, and we don't mean to dirty
             our dresses so much any more.

    HOUSE-BUILDING AND REPAIRS.

    Father is building a new house, but I've had one given to me for
             my own;
    Brick red, with a white window, and black where it ought to be glass,
             and the chimney yellow, like stone.
    Brother Bill made me the shelves with his tool-box, and the table I
             had before, and the pestle-and-mortar;
    And Mother gave me the jam-pot when it was empty; it's rather big, but
             it's the only pot we have that will really hold water.
    We--that is I and Jemima, my doll. (For it's a Doll's House, you know,
    Though some of the things are real, like the nutmeg-grater, but not
             the wooden plates that stand in a row.
    _They_ came out of a box of toy tea-things, and I can't think what
             became of the others;
    But one never can tell what becomes of anything when one has brothers.)
    Jemima is much smaller than I am, and, being made of wood, she is thin;
    She takes up too much room inside, but she can lie outside on the roof
             without breaking it in.
    I wish I had a drawing-room to put her in when I want to really cook;
    I have to have the kitchen-table outside as it is, and the
             pestle-and-mortar is rather too heavy for it, and everybody
             can look.
    There's no front door to the house, because there's no front to have a
             door in, and beside,
    If there were, I couldn't play with anything, for I shouldn't know how
             to get inside.
    I never heard of a house with only one room, except the cobbler's, and
             his was a stall.
    I don't quite know what that is; but it isn't a house, and it served
             him for parlour and kitchen and all.
    Father says that whilst he is about it, he thinks he shall add on
             a wing;
    And brother Bill says he'll nail my Doll's House on the top of an
             old tea-chest, which will come to the same thing.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Father's house is not finished, though the wing is; for now the
             builder says it will be all wrong if there isn't another
             to match;
    And my house isn't done either, though it's nailed on, for Bill took
             off the roof to make a new one of thatch.
    The paint is very much scratched, but he says that's nothing, for it
             must have had a new coat;
    And he means to paint it for me, inside and out, when he paints
             his own boat.
    There's a sad hole in the floor, but Bill says the wood is as rotten
             as rotten can be:
    Which was why he made such a mess of the side with trying to put real
             glass in the window, through which one can see.
    Bill says he believes that the shortest plan would be to make a new
             Doll's House with proper rooms, in the regular way;
    Which was what the builder said to Father when he wanted to build in
             the old front; and to-day
    I heard him tell him the old materials were no good to use and weren't
             worth the expense of carting away.
    I don't know when I shall be able to play at dolls again, for all the
             things are put away in a box;
    Except Jemima and the pestle-and-mortar, and they're in the bottom
             drawer with my Sunday frocks.
    I almost wish I had kept the house as it was before;
    We managed very well with a painted window and without a front door.
    I don't know what Father means to do with his house, but if ever
             mine is finished, I'll never have it altered any more.

    THE BLUE-BELLS ON THE LEA.

    FAIRY KING.

    "The breeze is on the Blue-bells,
      The wind is on the lea;
    Stay out! stay out! my little lad,
      And chase the wind with me.
    If you will give yourself to me,
      Within the fairy ring,
        At deep midnight,
        When stars are bright,
      You'll hear the Blue-bells ring--
                   D!
                DI! DIN!
                 DING!
      On slender stems they swing.

    "The rustling wind, the whistling wind,
      We'll chase him to and fro,
    We'll chase him up, we'll chase him down
      To where the King-cups grow;
    And where old Jack-o'-Lantern waits
      To light us on our way,
    And far behind,
          Upon the wind,
      The Blue-bells seem to play--
                   D!
                DI! DIN!
                 DING!
      Lest we should go astray.

    "So gay that fairy music,
      So jubilant those bells,
    How days and weeks and months go by
      No happy listener tells!
    The toad-stools are with sweetmeats spread,
      The new Moon lends her light,
        And ringers small
        Wait, one and all,
      To ring with all their might--
                   D!
                DI! DIN!
                 DING!
      And welcome you to night."

    BOY.

    "My mother made me promise
      To be in time for tea,
    'Go home! go home!' the breezes say,
      That sigh along the lea.
    I dare not give myself away;
      For what would Mother do?
          I wish I might
          Stay out all night
        At fairy games with you.
                   D!
                DI! DIN!
                 DING!
        And hear the bells of blue.

    "But Father sleeps beneath the grass,
      And Mother is alone:
    And who would fill the pails, and fetch
      The wood when I am gone?
    And who, when little Sister ails,
      Can comfort her, but me?
          Her cries and tears
          Would reach my ears
      Through all the melody--
                   D!
                DI! DIN!
                 DING!
      Of Blue-bells on the lea."

    The sun was on the Blue-bells,
      The lad was on the lea.
    "Oh, wondrous bells! Oh, fairy bells!
      I pray you ring to me.
    I only did as Mother bade,
      For tea I did not care,
          And winds at night
          Give more delight
      Than all this noonday glare."
                   D!
                DI! DIN!
                 DING!
    No sound of bells was there.

    BOY.

    "The snow lies o'er the Blue-bells,
      A storm is on the lea;
    Our hearth is warm, the fire burns bright,
      The flames dance merrily.
    Oh, Mother dear! I would no more
      That on that summer's day,
        Within the ring,
        The Fairy King
      Had stolen me away--
                   D!
                DI! DIN!
                 DING!
    To where the Blue-bells play.

    "Yet when the storm is loudest,
      At deep midnight I dream,
    And up and down upon the lea
      To chase the wind I seem;
    While by my side, in feathered cap,
      There runs the Fairy King,
        And down below,
        Beneath the snow,
      We hear the Blue-bells ring--
                   D!
                DI! DIN!
                 DING!
    Such happy dreams they bring!"

    AN ONLY CHILD'S TEA-PARTY.

    When I go to tea with the little Smiths, there are eight of them
             there, but there's only one of me,
    Which makes it not so easy to have a fancy tea-party as if there were
             two or three.
    I had a tea-party on my birthday, but Joe Smith says it can't have
             been a regular one,
    Because as to a tea-party with only one teacup and no teapot,
             sugar-basin, cream-jug, or slop-basin, he never heard of such
             a thing under the sun.
    But it was a very big teacup, and quite full of milk and water, and,
             you see,
    There wasn't anybody there who could really drink milk and water except
             Towser and me.
    The dolls can only pretend, and then it washes the paint off
             their lips,
    And what Charles the canary drinks isn't worth speaking of, for he
             takes such very small sips.
    Joe says a kitchen-chair isn't a table; but it has got four legs and
             a top, so it would be if the back wasn't there;
    And that does for Charles to perch on, and I have to put the Prince
             of Wales to lean against it, because his legs have no joints
             to sit on a chair.

    That's the small doll. I call him the Prince of Wales because he's
             the eldest son, you see;
    For I've taken him for my brother, and he was Mother's doll before
             I was born, so of course he is older than me.
    Towser is my real live brother, but I don't think he's as old as the
             Prince of Wales;
    He's a perfect darling, though he whisks everything over he comes
             near, and I tell him I don't know what we should do if
             we all had tails.
    His hair curls like mine in front, and grows short like a lion behind,
             but no one need be frightened, for he's as good as good;
    And as to roaring like a real menagerie lion, or eating people up,
             I don't believe he would if he could.
    He has his tea out of the saucer after I've had mine out of the cup;
    You see I am sure to leave some for him, but if I let him begin first
             he would drink it all up.
    The big doll Godmamma gave me this birthday, and the chair she gave me
             the year before.
    (I haven't many toys, but I take great care of them, and every birthday
             I shall have more and more.)
    You've no idea what a beautiful doll she is, and when I pinch her in
             the middle, she can squeak;
    It quite frightened Towser, for he didn't know that any of us but he
             and I and Charles were able to speak.
    I've taken her for my only sister, for of course I may take anybody
             I choose;
    I've called her Cinderella, because I'm so fond of the story, and
             because she's got real shoes.
    I don't feel so _only_ now there are so many of us; for, counting
             Cinderella there are five,--
    She, and I, and Towser, and Charles, and the Prince of Wales--and
             three of us are really alive;
    And four of us can speak, and I'm sure the Prince of Wales is
             wonderful for his size;
    For his things (at least he's only got one thing) take off and on,
             and, though he's nothing but wood, he's got real glass eyes.
    And perhaps in three birthdays more there may be as many of us as the
             Smiths, for five and three make eight;
    I shall be seven years old then (as old as Joe), but I don't like
             to think too much of it, it's so long to wait.
    And after all I don't know that I want any more of us: I think I'd
             rather my sister had a chair
    Like mine; and the next year I should like a collar for Towser if
             it wouldn't rub off his hair.
    And it would be very nice if the Prince of Wales could be dressed
             like a Field-marshal, for he's got nothing on his legs;
    And Cinderella's beautifully dressed, and Towser looks quite as if
             he'd got a fur coat on when he begs.
    Joe says it's perfectly absurd, and that I can't take a Pomeranian
             in earnest for my brother;
    But I don't think he really and truly knows how much Towser and I
             love each other.
    I didn't like his saying, "Well, there's one thing about your lot,--you
             can always have your own way."
    And then he says, "You can't possibly have fun with four people when
             you have to pretend what they say."
    But, whatever he says, I don't believe I shall ever enjoy a tea-party
             more than the one that we had on that day.

    PAPA POODLE.

    Can any one look so wise, and have so little in his head?
    How long will it be, Papa Poodle, before you have learned to read?
    You were called Papa Poodle because you took care of me when I was
             a baby:
    And now I can read words of three syllables, and you sit with a book
             before you like a regular gaby.
    You've not read a word since I put you in that corner ten minutes ago;
    Bill and I've fought the battle of Waterloo since dinner, and you've
             not learned BA BE BI BO.
    Here am I doing the whole British Army by myself, for Bill is obliged
             to be the French;
    And I've come away to hear you say your lesson, and left Bill waiting
             for me in the trench.
    And there you sit, with a curly white wig, like the Lord Chief Justice,
             and as grave a face,
    Looking the very picture of goodness and wisdom, when you're really in
             the deepest disgrace.
    Those woolly locks of yours grow thicker and thicker, Papa Poodle.
    Does the wool tangle inside as well as outside your head? and is it
             that which makes you such a noodle?
    You seem so clever at some things, and so stupid at others, and I keep
             wondering why;
    But I'm afraid the truth is, Papa Poodle, that you're uncommonly sly.
    You did no spelling-lessons last week, for you were out from morning
             till night,
    Except when you slunk in, like a dirty door-mat on legs, and with one
             ear bleeding from a fight,
    Looking as if you'd no notion what o'clock it was, and had come home
             to see.
    But _your watch keeps very good meal-time_, Papa Poodle, for you're
             always at breakfast, and dinner, and tea.
    No, it's no good your shaking hands and licking me with your
             tongue,--I know you can do that;
    But sitting up, and giving paws, and kissing, won't teach you to
             spell C A T, Cat.
    I wonder, if I let you off lessons, whether I could teach you to pull
             the string with your teeth, and fire our new gun?
    If I could, you might be the Artillery all to yourself, and it would
             be capital fun.
    You wag your tail at that, do you? You would like it a great deal
             better?
    But I can't bear you to be such a dunce, when you look so wise; and
             yet I don't believe you'll ever learn a letter.
    Aunt Jemima is going to make me a new cocked hat out of the next old
             newspaper, for I want to have a review;
    But the newspaper after that, Papa Poodle, must be kept to make a
             fool's cap for you.

    GRANDMOTHER'S SPRING.

    "In my young days," the grandmother said (Nodding her head,
    Where cap and curls were as white as snow),
    "In my young days, when we used to go
               Rambling,
               Scrambling;
    Each little dirty hand in hand,
    Like a chain of daisies, a comical band
    Of neighbours' children, seriously straying,
    Really and truly going a-Maying,
    My mother would bid us linger,
    And lifting a slender, straight forefinger,
               Would say--
    'Little Kings and Queens of the May,
               Listen to me!
               If you want to be
    Every one of you very good
    In that beautiful, beautiful, beautiful wood,
    Where the little birds' heads get so turned with delight,
    That some of them sing all night:
               Whatever you pluck,
               Leave some for good luck;
    Picked from the stalk, or pulled up by the root,
    From overhead, or from underfoot,
    Water-wonders of pond or brook;
               Wherever you look,
               And whatever you find--
               Leave something behind:
               Some for the Naiads,
               Some for the Dryads,
    And a bit for the Nixies, and the Pixies.'"

    "After all these years," the grandame said,
               Lifting her head,
    "I think I can hear my mother's voice
               Above all other noise,
    Saying, 'Hearken, my child!
    There is nothing more destructive and wild,
    No wild bull with his horns,
    No wild-briar with clutching thorns,
    No pig that routs in your garden-bed,
    No robber with ruthless tread,
               More reckless and rude,
    And wasteful of all things lovely and good,
    Than a child, with the face of a boy and the ways of a bear,
               Who _doesn't care;_
    Or some little ignorant minx
               Who _never thinks_.
    Now I never knew so stupid an elf,
    That he couldn't think and care for himself.
    Oh, little sisters and little brothers,
    Think for others, and care for others!
    And of all that your little fingers find,
               Leave something behind,
    For love of those that come after:
    Some, perchance, to cool tired eyes in the moss that stifled your
             laughter!
               Pluck, children, pluck!
               But leave--for good luck--
               Some for the Naiads,
               And some for the Dryads,
    And a bit for the Nixies, and the Pixies!'"

    "We were very young," the grandmother said,
          Smiling and shaking her head;
          "And when one is young,
    One listens with half an ear, and speaks with a hasty tongue;
          So with shouted Yeses,
          And promises sealed with kisses,
    Hand-in-hand we started again,
          A chubby chain,
    Stretching the whole wide width of the lane;
          Or in broken links of twos and threes,
            For greater ease
            Of rambling,
            And scrambling,
          By the stile and the road,
    That goes to the beautiful, beautiful wood;
          By the brink of the gloomy pond,
          To the top of the sunny hill beyond,
    By hedge and by ditch, by marsh and by mead,
    By little byways that lead
              To mysterious bowers;
    Or to spots where, for those who know,
              There grow,
    In certain out-o'-way nooks, rare ferns and uncommon flowers.
              There were flowers everywhere,
              Censing the summer air,
              Till the giddy bees went rolling home
              To their honeycomb,
              And when we smelt at our posies,
    The little fairies inside the flowers rubbed coloured dust on
             our noses,
    Or pricked us till we cried aloud for snuffing the dear dog-roses.
              But above all our noise,
              I kept thinking I heard my mother's voice.
    But it may have been only a fairy joke,
    For she was at home, and I sometimes thought it was
        really the flowers that spoke.
              From the Foxglove in its pride,
              To the Shepherd's Purse by the bare road-side;
    From the snap-jack heart of the Starwort frail,
    To meadows full of Milkmaids pale,
    And Cowslips loved by the nightingale.
    Rosette of the tasselled Hazel-switch,
    Sky-blue star of the ditch;
              Dandelions like mid-day suns;
              Bindweed that runs;
    Butter and Eggs with the gaping lips,
    Sweet Hawthorn that hardens to haws, and Roses that die into hips;
              Lords-with-their-Ladies cheek-by-jowl,
              In purple surcoat and pale-green cowl;
              Family groups of Primroses fair;
              Orchids rare;
    Velvet Bee-orchis that never can sting,
    Butterfly-orchis which never takes wing,
    Robert-the-Herb with strange sweet scent,
    And crimson leaf when summer is spent:
              Clustering neighbourly,
              All this gay company,
              Said to us seemingly--
              'Pluck, children, pluck!
              But leave some for good luck:
              Some for the Naiads,
              Some for the Dryads,
    And a bit for the Nixies, and the Pixies,'"

    "I was but a maid," the grandame said,
    "When my mother was dead;
    And many a time have I stood.
    In that beautiful wood,
    To dream that through every woodland noise,
              Through the cracking
              Of twigs and the bending of bracken,
              Through the rustling
    Of leaves in the breeze,
              And the bustling
    Of dark-eyed, tawny-tailed squirrels flitting about the trees,
    Through the purling and trickling cool
    Of the streamlet that feeds the pool,
              I could hear her voice.
    Should I wonder to hear it? Why?
    Are the voices of tender wisdom apt to die?
    And now, though I'm very old,
    And the air, that used to feel fresh, strikes chilly and cold,
              On a sunny day when I potter
              About the garden, or totter
    To the seat from whence I can see, below,
    The marsh and the meadows I used to know,
    Bright with the bloom of the flowers that blossomed there long ago;
              Then, as if it were yesterday,
              I fancy I hear them say--
              'Pluck, children, pluck,
              But leave some for good luck;
    Picked from the stalk, or pulled up by the root,
    From overhead, or from underfoot,
    Water-wonders of pond or brook;
    Wherever you look,
              And whatever your little fingers find,
              Leave something behind:
              Some for the Naiads,
              And some for the Dryads,
    And a bit for the Nixies, and the Pixies.'"

    The following note was given in _Aunt Judy's Magazine_, June
    1880, when "Grandmother's Spring" first appeared:--"It may
    interest old readers of _Aunt Judy's Magazine_ to know that
    'Leave some for the Naiads and the Dryads' was a favourite
    phrase with Mr. Alfred Gatty, and is not merely the charge of
    an imaginary mother to her 'blue-eyed banditti.' Whether my
    mother invented the expression for our benefit, or whether she
    only quoted it, I do not know. I only remember its use as a
    check on the indiscriminate 'collecting' and 'grubbing' of a
    large family; a mystic warning not without force to fetter the
    same fingers in later life, with all the power of a pious
             tradition."--J.H.E.

    BIG SMITH.

    Are you a Giant, great big man, or is your real name Smith?
    Nurse says you've got a hammer that you hit bad children with.
    I'm good to-day, and so I've come to see if it is true
    That you can turn a red-hot rod into a horse's shoe.

    Why do you make the horses' shoes of iron instead of leather?
    Is it because they are allowed to go out in bad weather?
    If horses should be shod with iron, Big Smith, will you shoe mine?
    For now I may not take him out, excepting when it's fine.

    Although he's not a real live horse, I'm very fond of him;
    His harness won't take off and on, but still it's new and trim.
    His tail is hair, he has four legs, but neither hoofs nor heels;
    I think he'd seem more like a horse without these yellow wheels.

    They say that Dapple-grey's not yours, but don't you wish he were?
    My horse's coat is only paint, but his is soft grey hair;
    His face is big and kind, like yours, his forelock white as snow--
    Shan't you be sorry when you've done his shoes and he must go?

    I do so wish, Big Smith, that I might come and live with you;
    To rake the fire, to heat the rods, to hammer two and two.
    To be so black, and not to have to wash unless I choose;
    To pat the dear old horses, and to mend their poor old shoes.

    When all the world is dark at night, you work among the stars,
    A shining shower of fireworks beat out of red-hot bars.
    I've seen you beat, I've heard you sing, when I was going to bed;
    And now your face and arms looked black, and now were glowing red.

    The more you work, the more you sing, the more the bellows roar;
    The falling stars, the flying sparks, stream shining more and more.
    You hit so hard, you look so hot, and yet you never tire;
    It must be very nice to be allowed to play with fire.

    I long to beat and sing and shine, as you do, but instead
    I put away my horse, and Nurse puts me away to bed.
    I wonder if you go to bed; I often think I'll keep
    Awake and see, but, though I try, I always fall asleep.

    I know it's very silly, but I sometimes am afraid
    Of being in the dark alone, especially in bed.
    But when I see your forge-light come and go upon the wall,
    And hear you through the window, I am not afraid at all.

    I often hear a trotting horse, I sometimes hear it stop;
    I hold my breath--you stay your song--it's at the blacksmith's shop.
    Before it goes, I'm apt to fall asleep, Big Smith, it's true;
    But then I dream of hammering that horse's shoes with you!

    KIT'S CRADLE.

    They've taken the cosy bed away
    That I made myself with the Shetland shawl,
    And set me a hamper of scratchy hay,
    By that great black stove in the entrance-hall.

    I won't sleep there; I'm resolved on that!
    They may think I will, but they little know
    There's a soft persistence about a cat
    That even a little kitten can show.

    I wish I knew what to do but pout,
    And spit at the dogs and refuse my tea;
    My fur's feeling rough, and I rather doubt
    Whether stolen sausage agrees with me.

    On the drawing-room sofa they've closed the door,
    They've turned me out of the easy-chairs;
    I wonder it never struck me before
    That they make their beds for themselves up-stairs.

       *       *       *       *       *

    I've found a crib where they won't find me,
    Though they're crying "Kitty!" all over the house.
    Hunt for the Slipper! and riddle-my-ree!
    A cat can keep as still as a mouse.

    It's rather unwise perhaps to purr,
    But they'll never think of the wardrobe-shelves.
    I'm happy in every hair of my fur;
    They may keep the hamper and hay themselves.

    THE MILL STREAM.

    One of a hundred little rills--
          Born in the hills,
    Nourished with dews by the earth, and with tears by the sky,
          Sang--"Who so mighty as I?
          The farther I flow
          The bigger I grow.
    I, who was born but a little rill,
    Now turn the big wheel of the mill,
    Though the surly slave would rather stand still.
        Old, and weed-hung, and grim,
        I am not afraid of him;
    For when I come running and dance on his toes,
    With a creak and a groan the monster goes.
          And turns faster and faster,
          As he learns who is master,
          Round and round,
          Till the corn is ground,
    And the miller smiles as he stands on the bank,
    And knows he has me to thank.
    Then when he swings the fine sacks of flour,
           I feel my power;
    But when the children enjoy their food,
    I know I'm not only great but good!"

    Furthermore sang the brook--
    "Who loves the beautiful, let him look!
    Garlanding me in shady spots
           The Forget-me-nots
    Are blue as the summer sky:
           Who so lovely as I?
    My King-cups of gold
    Shine from the shade of the alders old,
           Stars of the stream!--
    At the water-rat's threshold they gleam.
           From below
    The Frog-bit spreads me its blossoms of snow,
           And in masses
    The Willow-herb, the flags, and the grasses,
           Reeds, rushes, and sedges,
    Flower and fringe and feather my edges.
           To be beautiful is not amiss,
    But to be loved is more than this;
    And who more sought than I,
    By all that run or swim or crawl or fly?
    Sober shell-fish and frivolous gnats,
           Tawny-eyed water-rats;
    The poet with rippling rhymes so fluent,
    Boys with boats playing truant,
    Cattle wading knee-deep for water;
    And the flower-plucking parson's daughter.
    Down in my depths dwell creeping things
    Who rise from my bosom on rainbow wings,
    For--too swift for a school-boy's prize--
    Hither and thither above me dart the prismatic-hued dragon-flies.
    At my side the lover lingers,
    And with lack-a-daisical fingers,
    The Weeping Willow, woe-begone,
    Strives to stay me as I run on."

    There came an hour
    When all this beauty and love and power
             Did seem
    But a small thing to that Mill Stream.
             And then his cry
        Was, "Why, oh! why
        Am I thus surrounded
    With checks and limits, and bounded
           By bank and border
           To keep me in order,
              Against my will?
    I, who was born to be free and unfettered--a mountain rill!
        But for these jealous banks, the good
            Of my gracious and fertilizing flood
        Might spread to the barren highways,
    And fill with Forget-me-nots countless neglected byways.
            Why should the rough-barked Willow for ever lave
        Her feet in my cooling wave;
            When the tender and beautiful Beech
    Faints with midsummer heat in the meadow just out of my reach?
    Could I but rush with unchecked power,
    The miller might grind a day's corn in an hour.
            And what are the ends
    Of life, but to serve one's friends?"

    A day did dawn at last,
    When the spirits of the storm and the blast,
    Breaking the bands of the winter's frost and snow,
    Swept from the mountain source of the stream, and flooded the
             valley below.
           Dams were broken and weirs came down;
           Cottage and mill, country and town,
           Shared in the general inundation,
           And the following desolation.
           Then the Mill Stream rose in its might,
           And burst out of bounds to left and to right,
    Rushed to the beautiful Beech,
           In the meadow far out of reach.
    But with such torrents the poor tree died,
    Torn up by the roots, and laid on its side.
           The cattle swam till they sank,
           Trying to find a bank.
           Never more shall the broken water-wheel
           Grind the corn to make the meal,
           To make the children's bread.
           The miller was dead.

                When the setting sun
    Looked to see what the Mill Stream had done
             In its hour
        Of unlimited power,
    And what was left when that had passed by,
    Behold the channel was stony and dry.
             In uttermost ruin
        The Mill Stream had been its own undoing.
    Furthermore it had drowned its friend:
             This was the end.

    BOY AND SQUIRREL.

    Oh boy, down there, I can't believe that what they say is true!
    We squirrels surely cannot have an enemy in you;
    We have so much in common, my dear friend, it seems to me
    That I can really feel for you, and you can feel for me.

    Some human beings might not understand the life we lead;
    If we asked Dr. Birch to play, no doubt he'd rather read;
    He hates all scrambling restlessness, and chattering, scuffling noise;
    If he could catch us we should fare no better than you boys.

    Fine ladies, too, whose flounces catch and tear on every stump,
    What joy have they in jagged pines, who neither skip nor jump?
    Miss Mittens never saw my tree-top home--so unlike hers;
    What wonder if her only thought of squirrels is of furs?

    But you, dear boy, you know so well the bliss of climbing trees,
    Of scrambling up and sliding down, and rocking in the breeze,
    Of cracking nuts and chewing cones, and keeping cunning hoards,
    And all the games and all the sport and fun a wood affords.

    It cannot be that you would make a prisoner of me,
    Who hate yourself to be cooped up, who love so to be free;
    An extra hour indoors, I know, is punishment to you;
    _You_ make _me_ twirl a tiny cage? It never can be true!

    Yet I've a wary grandfather, whose tail is white as snow.
    He thinks he knows a lot of things we young ones do not know;
    He says we're safe with Doctor Birch, because he is so blind,
    And that Miss Mittens would not hurt a fly, for she is kind.

    But you, dear boy, who know my ways, he bids me fly from you,
    He says my life and liberty are lost unless I do;
    That you, who fear the Doctor's cane, will fling big sticks at me,
    And tear me from my forest home, and from my favourite tree.

    The more we think of what he says, the more we're sure it's "chaff,"
    We sit beneath the shadow of our bushy tails and laugh;
    Hey, presto! Friend, come up, and let us hide and seek and play,
    If you could spring as well as climb, what fun we'd have to-day!

    LITTLE MASTER TO HIS BIG DOG.

    Oh, how greedy you look as you stare at my plate,
      Your mouth waters so, and your big tail is drumming
    Flop! flop! flop! on the carpet, and yet if you'll wait,
      When we have quite finished, your dinner is coming.

    Yes! I know what you mean, though you don't speak a word;
      You say that you wish that I kindly would let you
    Take your meals with the family, which is absurd,
      And on a tall chair like a gentleman set you.

    But how little you think, my dear dog, when you talk;
      You've no "table manners," you bolt meat, you gobble;
    And how could you eat bones with a knife, spoon, and fork?
      You would be in a most inconvenient hobble.

    And yet, once on a time it is certainly true,
      My own manners wanted no little refining;
    For I gobbled, and spilled, and was greedy like you,
      And had no idea of good manners when dining.

    So that when I consider the tricks _you_ have caught,
      To sit or shake paws with the utmost good breeding,
    I must own it quite possible you may be taught
      The use of a plate, and a nice style of feeding.

    Therefore try to learn manners, and eat as I do;
      Don't glare at the joint, and as soon as you're able
    To behave like the rest, you shall feed with us too,
      And dine like a gentleman sitting at table.

    A SWEET LITTLE DEAR

    I always _was_ a remarkable child; so old for my age, and such a
             sensitive nature!--Mamma often says so.
    And I'm the sweetest, little dear in my blue ribbons, and quite a
             picture in my Pompadour hat!--Mrs. Brown told her so on
             Sunday, and that's how I know.
    And I'm a sacred responsibility to my parents--(it was what the
             clergyman's wife at the seaside said),
    And a solemn charge, and a fair white page, and a tender bud, and
             a spotless nature of wax to be moulded;--but the rest of
             it has gone out of my head.
    There was a lot more, and she left two books as well, and I think she
             called me a Privilege, and Mamma said "Yes," and began to cry.
    And Nurse came in with luncheon on a tray, and put away the books, and
             said she was as weak as a kitten, and worried to
             fiddlestrings, as any one with common sense could see with
             half an eye.
    I was hopping round the room, but I stopped and said, "My kitten's not
             weak, and I don't believe anybody could see with only half an
             eye. Could they, Mamma?"
    And Nurse said, "Go and play, my dear, and let your Mamma rest;"
             but Mamma said, "No, my love, stay where you are.
    Dear Nurse, lift me up, and put a pillow to my back, I know
             you mean to be kind;
    But she does ask such remarkable questions, and while I've strength
             to speak, don't let me check the inquiring mind.
    If I should fail to be all a mother ought--oh, how my head throbs when
             the dear child jumps!" and then Nurse said, "Ugh!
    When you're worried into your grave, she'll have no mother at all,
             and'll have to tumble up as other folks do.
    There's the poor master at his wits' end--a child's not all a grown
             person has to think of--and Miss Jane would do well enough if
             she'd less of her own way;
    But there's more children spoilt with care than the want of it, and
             more mothers murdered than there's folks hanged for, and
             that's what I say.
    Children learns what you teach 'em, and Miss Jane's old enough to have
             learned to wait upon you:
    And if her mother thought less of her and she thought more of her
             mother, it would be better for her too."
    But Nurse is a nasty cross old thing--I hate her; and I hate the
             doctor, for he wanted me to be left behind
    When Mamma went to the sea for her health; but I begged and begged
             till she promised I should go, for Mamma is always kind.
    And she bought me a new wooden spade and a basket, and a red and green
             ship with three masts, and a one-and-sixpenny telescope to
             look at the sea;
    But when I got on to the sands, I thought I'd rather be on the
             esplanade, for there was a little girl there who was
             looking at me,
    Dressed in a navy-blue suit and a sailor hat, with fair hair tied
             with ribbons; so I told Mamma,
    And she got me a suit, ready-made (but she said it was dreadfully
             dear), and a hat to match, in the Pebble Brooch Repository
             and Universal Bazaar.
    It faded in the sun, and came all to pieces in the wash; but I was
             tired of it before.
    For the esplanade is very dull, and the little girl with fair hair had
             got sand-boots and a shrimping-net and was playing on
             the shore.
    And when my sand-boots came home, and I'd got a better net than hers,
             she went donkey-riding, and I knew it was to tease me,
    But Nurse was so cross, and said if they sent a man in a herring-boat
             to the moon for what I wanted that nothing would please me.
    So I said the seaside was a very disagreeable place, and I wished I
             hadn't come,
    And I told Mamma so, and begged her to try and get well soon, to take
             us all home.
    But now we've got home, it's very hot, and I'm afraid of the wasps;
             and I'm sure it was cooler at the sea,
    And the Smiths won't be back for a fortnight, so I can't even have
             Matilda to tea.
    I don't care much for my new doll--I think I'm too old for dolls now;
             I like books better, though I didn't like the last,
    And I've read all I have: I always skip the dull parts, and when you
             skip a good deal you get through them so fast.
    I like toys if they're the best kind, with works; though when I've had
             one good game with them, I don't much care to play with
             them again.
    I feel as if I wanted something new to amuse me, and Mamma says it's
             because I've got such an active brain.
    Nurse says I don't know what I want, and I know I don't, and that's
             just what it is.
    It seems so sad a young creature like me should feel unhappy, and not
             know what's amiss;
    But Nurse never thinks of my feelings, any more than the cruel nurse
             in the story about the little girl who was so good,
    And if I die early as she did, perhaps then people will be sorry I've
             been misunderstood.
    I shouldn't like to die early, but I should like people to be sorry
             for me, and to praise me when I was dead:
    If I could only come to life again when they had missed me very much,
             and I'd heard what they said--
    Of course that's impossible, I know, but I wish I knew what to
             do instead!
    It seems such a pity that a sweet little dear like me should
             ever be sad.
    And Mamma says she buys everything I want, and has taught me
             everything I will learn, and reads every book, and takes
             every hint she can pick up, and keeps me with her all day,
             and worries about me all night, till she's nearly mad;
    And if any kind person can think of any better way to make me happy
             we shall both of us be glad.

    BLUE AND RED:
    OR, THE DISCONTENTED LOBSTER.

    Permit me, Reader, to make my bow,
            And allow
    Me to humbly commend to your tender mercies
    The hero of these simple verses.
    By domicile, of the British Nation;
    By birth and family, a Crustacean.
    One's hero should have a name that rare is;
    And his was _Homarus_, but--_Vulgaris!_
    A Lobster, who dwelt with several others,--
        His sisters and brothers,--
    In a secluded but happy home,
    Under the salt sea's foam.
            It lay
    At the outermost point of a rocky bay.
    A sandy, tide-pooly, cliff-bound cove,
    With a red-roofed fishing village above,
    Of irregular cottages, perched up high
    Amid pale yellow poppies next to the sky.
    Shells and pebbles, and wrack below,
    And shrimpers shrimping all in a row;
    Tawny sails and tarry boats,
    Dark brown nets and old cork floats;
    Nasty smells at the nicest spots,
    And blue-jerseyed sailors and--lobster-pots.

              "It is sweet to be
    At home in the deep, deep sea.
    It is very pleasant to have the power
    To take the air on dry land for an hour;
    And when the mid-day midsummer sun
    Is toasting the fields as brown as a bun,
    And the sands are baking, it's very nice
    To feel as cool as a strawberry ice
    In one's own particular damp sea-cave,
    Dipping one's feelers in each green wave.
    It is good, for a very rapacious maw,
    When storm-tossed morsels come to the claw;
    And 'the better to see with' down below,
    To wash one's eyes in the ebb and flow
    Of the tides that come and the tides that go."
    So sang the Lobsters, thankful for their mercies,
    All but the hero of these simple verses.
              Now a hero--
      If he's worth the grand old name--
    Though temperature may change from boiling-point to zero
      Should keep his temper all the same:
    Courageous and content in his estate,
    And proof against the spiteful blows of Fate.
    It, therefore, troubles me to have to say,
      That with this Lobster it was never so;
    Whate'er the weather or the sort of day,
      No matter if the tide were high or low,
    Whatever happened he was never pleased,
    And not himself alone, but all his kindred teased.

            "Oh! oh!
          What a world of woe
    We flounder about in, here below!
            Oh dear! oh dear!
        It is too, too dull, down here!
      I haven't the slightest patience
      With any of my relations;
      I take no interest whatever
      In things they call curious and clever.
      And, for love of dear truth I state it,
      As for my Home--I hate it!
    I'm convinced I was formed for a larger sphere,
    And am utterly out of my element here."
    Then his brothers and sisters said,
    Each solemnly shaking his and her head,
    "You put your complaints in most beautiful verse,
          And yet we are sure,
    That, in spite of all you have to endure,
    You might go much farther and fare much worse.
    We wish you could live in a higher sphere,
    But we think you might live happily here."
    "I don't live, I only exist," he said,
    "Be pleased to look upon me as dead."
    And he swam to his cave, and took to his bed.
    He sulked so long that the sisters cried,
    "Perhaps he has really and truly died."
    But the brothers went to the cave to peep,
    For they said, "Perhaps he is only asleep."
    They found him, far too busy to talk,
    With a very large piece of bad salt pork.
    "Dear Brother, what luck you have had to-day!
    Can you tell us, pray,
    Is there any more pork afloat in the bay?"
    But not a word would my hero say,
    Except to repeat, with sad persistence,
    "This is not life, it's only existence."

    One day there came to the fishing village
    An individual bent on pillage;
    But a robber whom true scientific feeling
    May find guilty of picking, but not of stealing.
      He picked the yellow poppies on the cliffs;
      He picked the feathery seaweeds in the pools;
      He picked the odds and ends from nets and skiffs;
      He picked the brains of all the country fools.
    He dried the poppies for his own herbarium,
    And caught the Lobsters for a seaside town aquarium.

      "Tank No. 20" is deep,
      "Tank No. 20" is cool,
      For clever contrivances always keep
        The water fresh in the pool;
    And a very fine plate-glass window is free to the public view,
    Through which you can stare at the passers-by and the passers-by
             stare at you.
    Said my hero, "This is a great variety
    From those dull old rocks, where we'd no society."

    For the primal cause of incidents,
      One often hunts about,
    When it's only a coincidence
      That matters so turned out.
    And I do not know the reason
      Or the reason I would tell--
    But it may have been the season--
      Why my hero chose this moment for casting off his shell.
      (And so had all the rest)
    In purplish navy blue from top to toe!
      But now his coat was new,
      It was of every shade of blue
    Between azure and the deepest indigo;
    And his sisters kept telling him, till they were tired,
    There never was any one so much admired.

    My hero was happy at last, you will say?
    So he was, dear Reader--two nights and a day;
    Then, as he and his relatives lay,
    Each at the mouth of his mock
    Cave in the face of a miniature rock,
    They saw, descending the opposite cliff,
    By jerks spasmodic of elbows stiff;
    Now hurriedly slipping, now seeming calmer,
    With the ease and the grace of a hog in armour,
    And as solemn as any ancient palmer,
              No less than nine
              Exceedingly fine
    And full-grown lobsters, all in a line.
    But the worst of the matter remains to be said.
    And when they got safe to the floor of the tank,--
    For which they had chiefly good luck to thank,--
    They settled their cumbersome coats of mail,
    And every lobster tucked his tail
    Neatly under him as he sat
    In a circle of nine for a cosy chat.
    They seemed to be sitting hand in hand,
    As shoulder to shoulder they sat in the sand,
    And waved their antennae in calm rotation,
    Apparently holding a consultation.
    But what were the feelings of Master Blue Shell?
    Oh, gentle Reader! how shall I tell?

    [Footnote 1: The colours of lobsters vary a good deal in various
    localities. _Homarus vulgaris_, the common lobster, is spotted, and, on
    the upper part, more or less of a bluish black. I once saw a lobster
    that had just got a new shell, and was of every lovely shade of blue

    [Footnote 2: _Palurinus vulgaris_, the spiny lobster, has no true
    claws, but huge hairy antennae. These lobsters are red _during their
    lifetime_! I have seen them (in the Crystal Palace Aquarium) seated
    exactly as here described, with blue lobsters watching them from
    niches of the rocky sides of the tank, where they looked like

    From the moment that those Nine he saw,
    He never could bear his blue coat more.
    "Oh, Brothers in misfortune!" he said,
    "Did you ever see any lobsters so grand,
    As those who sit down there in the sand?
    Why were we born at all, since not one of us all was born red?"
    "Dear Brother, indeed, this is quite a whim."
    (So his brothers and sisters reasoned with him;
    And, being exceedingly cultivated,
    The case with remarkable fairness stated.)
    "Red is a primary colour, it's true,
            But so is Blue;
    And we all of us think, dear Brother,
    That one is quite as good as the other.
    A swaggering soldier's a saucy varlet,
    Though he looks uncommonly well in scarlet.
    No doubt there's much to be said
    For a field of poppies of glowing red;
    For fiery rifts in sunset skies,
    Roses and blushes and red sunrise;
    For a glow on the Alps, and the glow of a forge,
    A foxglove bank in a woodland gorge;
    Sparks that are struck from red-hot bars,
    The sun in a mist, and the red star Mars;
    Flowers of countless shades and shapes,
    Matadors', judges', and gipsies' capes;
    The red-haired king who was killed in the wood,
    Robin Redbreast and little Red Riding Hood;
    Autumn maple, and winter holly,
    Red-letter days of wisdom or folly;
    The scarlet ibis, rose cockatoos,
    Cardinal's gloves, and Karen's shoes;
    Coral and rubies, and huntsmen's pink;
    Red, in short, is splendid, we think.
    But, then, we don't think there's a pin to choose;
    If the Guards are handsome, so are the Blues.
    It's a narrow choice between Sappers and Gunners.
    You sow blue beans, and rear scarlet runners.
    Then think of the blue of a mid-day sky,
    Of the sea, and the hills, and a Scotchman's eye;
    Of peacock's feathers, forget-me-nots,
    Worcester china and "jap" tea-pots.
    The blue that the western sky wears casually,
    Sapphire, turquoise, and lapis-lazuli.
          What can look smarter
    Than the broad blue ribbon of Knights of the Garter?
    And, if the subject is not too shocking,
    An intellectual lady's stocking.
          And who that loves hues
            Could fail to mention
          The wonderful blues
            Of the mountain gentian?"
    But to all that his brothers and sisters said,
    He made no reply but--"I wish I were dead!
    I'm all over blue, and I want to be red."
    And he moped and pined, and took to his bed.
    "That little one looks uncommonly sickly,
    Put him back in the sea, and put him back quickly."
    The voice that spoke was the voice of Fate,
    And the lobster was soon in his former state;
    Where, as of old, he muttered and mumbled,
    And growled and grumbled:
    "Oh dear! what shall I do?
    I want to be red, and I'm all over blue."

    I don't think I ever met with a book
    The evil genius of which was a cook;
            But it thus befell,
    In the tale I have the honour to tell;
    For as he was fretting and fuming about,
    A fisherman fished my hero out;
    And in process of time, he heard a voice,
            Which made him rejoice.
    The voice was the cook's, and what she said
    Was, "He'll soon come out a beautiful red."

            He was put in the pot,
            The water was very hot;
    The less we say about this the better,
    It was all fulfilled to the very letter.
    He did become a beautiful red,
    But then--which he did not expect--he was dead!

    Some gentle readers cannot well endure
      To see the ill end of a bad beginning;
    And hope against hope for a nicer cure
      For naughty heroes than to leave off sinning.
    And yet persisting in behaving badly,
    Do what one will, does commonly end sadly.

    But things in general are so much mixed,
      That every case must stand upon its merits;
    And folks' opinions are so little fixed,
      And no one knows the least what he inherits--
    I should be glad to shed some parting glory
    Upon the hero of this simple story.

    It seems to me a mean end to a ballad,
    But the truth is, he was made into salad;
    It's not how one's hero should end his days,
          In a mayonnaise,
    But I'm told that he looked exceedingly nice,
    With cream-coloured sauce, and pale-green lettuce and ice.

    I confess that if he'd been my relation,
    This would not afford me any consolation;
    For I feel (though one likes to speak well of the dead)
    That it must be said,
    He need not have died so early lamented,
    If he'd been content to live contented.

      P.S.--His claws were raised to very high stations;
            They keep the earwigs from our carnations.

    THE YELLOW FLY.

    A TALE WITH A STING IN IT.

                   Ah!
            There you are!
    I was certain I heard a strange voice from afar.
    Mamma calls me a pup, but I'm wiser than she;
    One ear cocked and I hear, half an eye and I see;
    Wide-awake though I doze, not a thing escapes me.

                   Yes!
            Let me guess:
    It's the stable-boy's hiss as he wisps down Black Bess.
    It sounds like a kettle beginning to sing,
    Or a bee on a pane, or a moth on the wing,
    Or my master's peg-top, just let loose from the string.

                   Well!
            Now I smell,
    I don't know who you are, and I'm puzzled to tell.
    You look like a fly dressed in very gay clothes,
    But I blush to have troubled my mid-day repose
    For a creature not worth half a twitch of my nose.

                   How now?
            Bow, wow, wow!
    The insect imagines we're playing, I vow!
    If I pat you, I promise you'll find it too hard.
    Be off! when a watch-dog like me is on guard,
    Big or little, no stranger's allowed in the yard.

                   Eh?
            "Come away!"
    My dear little master, is that what you say?
    I am greatly obliged for your kindness and cares,
    But I really can manage my own small affairs,
    And banish intruders who give themselves airs.

                   Snap!
            Yap! yap! yap!
    You defy me?--you pigmy, you insolent scrap!
    What!--this to my teeth, that have worried a score
    Of the biggest rats bred in the granary floor!
    Come on, and be swallowed! I spare you no more!

                   Help!
            Yelp! yelp! yelp!
    Little master, pray save an unfortunate whelp,
    Who began the attack, but is now in retreat,
    Having shown all his teeth, just escapes on his feet,
    And is trusting to you to make safety complete.

                   Oh!
            Let me go!
    My poor eye! my poor ear! my poor tail! my poor toe!
    Pray excuse my remarks, for I meant no such thing.
    Don't trouble to come--oh, the brute's on the wing!
    I'd no notion, I'm sure, there were flies that could sting.

                   Dear me!
            I can't see.
    My nose burns, my limbs shake, I'm as ill as can be.
    I was never in such an undignified plight.
    Mamma told me, and now I suppose she was right;
    One should know what one's after before one shows fight.

    CANADA HOME.

    Some Homes are where flowers for ever blow,
      The sun shining hotly the whole year round;
    But our Home glistens with six months of snow,
      Where frost without wind heightens every sound.
        And Home is Home wherever it is,
        When we're all together and nothing amiss.

    Yet Willy is old enough to recall
      A Home forgotten by Eily and me;
    He says that we left it five years since last Fall,
      And came sailing, sailing, right over the sea.
        But Home is Home wherever it is,
        When we're all together and nothing amiss.

    Our other Home was for ever green,
      A green, green isle in a blue, blue sea,
    With sweet flowers such as we never have seen;
      And Willy tells all this to Eily and me.
        But Home is Home wherever it is,
        When we're all together and nothing amiss.

    He says, "What fine fun when we all go back!"
      But Canada Home is very good fun
    When Pat's little sled flies along the smooth track,
      Or spills in the snowdrift that shines in the sun.
        For Home is Home wherever it is,
        When we're all together and nothing amiss.

    Some day I should dearly love, it is true,
      To sail to the old Home over the sea;
    But only if Father and Mother went too,
      With Willy and Patrick and Eily and me.
        For Home is Home wherever it is,
        When we're all together and nothing amiss.

    THE POET AND THE BROOK.

    A TALE OF TRANSFORMATIONS.

    A little Brook, that babbled under grass,
              Once saw a Poet pass--
    A Poet with long hair and saddened eyes,
    Who went his weary way with woeful sighs.
              And on another time,
    This Brook did hear that Poet read his rueful rhyme.
            Now in the poem that he read,
              This Poet said--
    "Oh! little Brook that babblest under grass!
    (_Ah me! Alack! Ah, well-a-day! Alas!_)
            Say, are you what you seem?
    Or is your life, like other lives, a dream?
    What time your babbling mocks my mortal moods,
            Fair Naiad of the stream!
            And are you, in good sooth,
    Could purblind poesy perceive the truth,
              A water-sprite,
    Who sometimes, for man's dangerous delight,
    Puts on a human form and face,
    To wear them with a superhuman grace?

    "When this poor Poet turns his bending back,
    (_Ah me! Ah, well-a-day! Alas! Alack!_)
    Say, shall you rise from out your grassy bed,
    With wreathed forget-me-nots about your head,
              And sing and play,
    And wile some wandering wight out of his way,
          To lead him with your witcheries astray?
    (_Ah me! Alas! Alack! Ah, well-a-day!_)
              Would it be safe for me
              That fateful form to see?"
    (_Alas! Alack! Ah, well-a-day! Ah me!_)

    So far the Poet read his pleasing strain,
            Then it began to rain:
            He closed his book.
    "Farewell, fair Nymph!" he cried, as with a lingering look
          His homeward way he took;
          And nevermore that Poet saw that Brook.

    The Brook passed several days in anxious expectation
              Of transformation
    Into a lovely nymph bedecked with flowers;
    And longed impatiently to prove those powers--
    Those dangerous powers--of witchery and wile,
    That should all mortal men mysteriously beguile;
    For life as running water lost its charm
    Before the exciting hope of doing so much harm.
              And yet the hope seemed vain;
              Despite the Poet's strain,
    Though the days came and went, and went and came,
    The seasons changed, the Brook remained the same.

    The Brook was almost tired
    Of vainly hoping to become a Naiad;
    When on a certain Summer's day,
    Dame Nature came that way,
              Busy as usual,
              With great and small;
    Who, at the water-side
    Dipping her clever fingers in the tide,
          Out of the mud drew creeping things,
    And, smiling on them, gave them radiant wings.
    Now when the poor Brook murmured, "Mother dear!"
          Dame Nature bent to hear,
    And the sad stream poured all its woes into her sympathetic ear,
    Crying,--"Oh, bounteous Mother!
    Do not do more for one child than another;
    If of a dirty grub or two
            (Dressing them up in royal blue)
    Change me as well;
    Uplift me also from this narrow place,
    Where life runs on at such a petty pace;
    Give me a human form, dear Dame, and then
    See how I'll flit, and flash, and fascinate the race of men!"

    [Footnote 3: The "Demoiselle" Dragon-fly, a well-known slender

    Then Mother Nature, who is wondrous wise,
    Did that deluded little Brook advise
    To be contented with its own fair face,
        And with a good and cheerful grace,
    Run, as of yore, on its appointed race,
    Safe both from giving and receiving harms;
    Outliving human lives, outlasting human charms.
    But good advice, however kind,
    Is thrown away upon a made-up mind,
    And this was all that babbling Brook would say--
    "Give me a human face and form, if only for a day!"

    Then quoth Dame Nature:--"Oh, my foolish child!
        Ere I fulfil a wish so wild,
        Since I am kind and you are ignorant,
        This much I grant:
    You shall arise from out your grassy bed,
    And gathered to the waters overhead
              Shall thus and then
    Look down and see the world, and all the ways of men!"
              Scarce had the Dame
        Departed to the place from whence she came,
        When in that very hour,
        The sun burst forth with most amazing power.
              Dame Nature bade him blaze, and he obeyed;
        He drove the fainting flocks into the shade,
        He ripened all the flowers into seed,
        He dried the river, and he parched the mead;
    Then on the Brook he turned his burning eye,
    Which rose and left its narrow channel dry;
    And, climbing up by sunbeams to the sky,
    Became a snow-white cloud, which softly floated by.

          It was a glorious Autumn day,
    And all the world with red and gold was gay;
          When, as this cloud athwart the heavens did pass,
    Lying below, it saw a Poet on the grass,
          The very Poet who had such a stir made,
    To prove the Brook was a fresh-water mermaid.
            And now,
    Holding his book above his corrugated brow--
            He read aloud,
    And thus apostrophized the passing cloud:
                "Oh, snowy-breasted Fair!
    Mysterious messenger of upper air!
    Who bear the souls of the heroic dead
    To where undying laurels crown the warrior's head?
    Or, as you smile and hover,
    Are you not rather some fond goddess of the skies who waits a mortal
             lover?
                And who, ah! who is he?
   --And what, oh, what!--your message to poor me?"--
    So far the Poet. Then he stopped:
                His book had dropped.
    But ere the delighted cloud could make reply,
    Dame Nature hurried by,
    And it put forth a wild beseeching cry--
    "Give me a human face and form!"
    Dame Nature frowned, and all the heavens grew black with storm.

    [Footnote 4: The Walkyrie in Teutonic mythology, whose office it is to

                But very soon,
    Upon a frosty winter's noon,
    The little cloud returned below,
                Falling in flakes of snow;
    Falling most softly on the floor most hard
    Of an old manor-house court-yard.
    And as it hastened to the earth again,
    The children sang behind the window-pane:
        "Old woman, up yonder, plucking your geese,
         Quickly pluck them, and quickly cease;
    Throw down the feathers, and when you have done,
         We shall have fun--we shall have fun."
    The snow had fallen, when with song and shout
            The girls and boys came out;
        Six sturdy little men and maids,
    Carrying heather-brooms, and wooden spades,
    Who swept and shovelled up the fallen snow,
    Which whimpered,--"Oh! oh! oh!
            Oh, Mother, most severe!
            Pity me lying here,
    I'm shaken all to pieces with that storm,
    Raise me and clothe me in a human form."

    They swept up much, they shovelled up more,
        There never was such a snow-man before!
    They built him bravely with might and main,
        There never will be such a snow-man again!
    His legs were big, his body was bigger,
    They made him a most imposing figure;
    His eyes were large and as black as coal,
    For a cinder was placed in each round hole.
    And the sight of his teeth would have made yours ache,
    Being simply the teeth of an ancient rake.
    They smoothed his forehead, they patted his back,
    There wasn't a single unsightly crack;
    And when they had given the final pat,
    They crowned his head with the scare-crow's hat.

              And so
    The Brook--the Cloud--the Snow,
    Got its own way after so many days,
    And did put on a human form and face.
              But whether
    The situation pleased it altogether;
              If it is nice
        To be a man of snow and ice;
              Whether it feels
        Painful, when one congeals;
              How this man felt
        When he began to melt;
    Whether he wore his human form and face
        With any extraordinary grace;
        If many mortals fell
        As victims to the spell;
              Or if,
        As he stood, stark and stiff,
        With a bare broomstick in his arms,
    And not a trace of transcendental charms,
              That man of snow
              Grew wise enough to know
    That the Brook's hopes were but a Poet's dream,
    And well content to be again a stream,
              On the first sunny day,
              Flowed quietly away;
    Or what the end was--You must ask the Poet,
              I don't know it.

    A SOLDIER'S CHILDREN.

    Our home used to be in a hut in the dear old Camp, with lots of bands
             and trumpets and bugles and Dead Marches, and three times
             a day there was a gun,
    But now we live in View Villa at the top of the village, and it isn't
             nearly such fun.
    We never see any soldiers, except one day we saw a Volunteer, and we
             ran after him as hard as ever we could go, for we thought he
             looked rather brave;
    But there's only been one funeral since we came, an ugly black thing
             with no Dead March or Union Jack, and not even a firing party
             at the grave.
    There is a man in uniform to bring the letters, but he's nothing like
             our old Orderly, Brown;
    I told him, through the hedge, "Your facings are dirty, and you'd
             have to wear your belt if my father was at home," and oh,
             how he did frown!
    But things can't be expected to go right when Old Father's away, and
             he's gone to the war;
    Which is why we play at soldiers and fighting battles more than ever
             we did before.
    And I try to keep things together: every morning I have a parade of
             myself and Dick,
    To see that we are clean, and to drill him and do sword-exercise with
             poor Grandpapa's stick.
    Grandpapa's dead, so he doesn't want it now, and Dick's too young for
             a real tin sword like mine:
    He's so young he won't make up his mind whether he'll go into the
             Artillery or the Line.
    I want him to be a gunner, for his frock's dark blue, and Captain
             Powder gave us a wooden gun with an elastic that shoots
             quite a big ball.
    It's nonsense Dick's saying he'd like to be a Chaplain, for that's
             not being a soldier at all.
    Besides, he always wants to be Drum-Major when we've funerals, to
             stamp the stick and sing RUM--TUM--TUM--
    To the Dead March in _Saul_ (that's the name of the tune, and you play
             it on a drum).

    Mary is so good, she might easily be a Chaplain, but of course she
             can't be anything that wants man;
    She likes nursing her doll, but when we have battles she moves the
             lead soldiers about, and does what she can.
    She never grumbles about not being able to grow up into a General,
             though I should think it must be a great bore.
    I asked her what she would do if she were grown up into a woman,
             and belonged to some one who was wounded in the war,--
    She said she'd go out and nurse him: so I said, "But supposing you
             couldn't get him better, and he died; how would you behave?"
    And she said if she couldn't get a ship to bring him home in, she
             should stay out there and grow a garden, and make wreaths
             for his grave.
    Nurse says we oughtn't to have battles, now Father's gone to battle,
             but that's just the reason why!
    And I don't believe one bit what she said about its making Mother cry.
    Only she does like us to put away our toys on Sunday, so we can't
             have the soldiers or the gun;
    But yesterday Dick said, "I was thinking in church, and I've thought
             of a game about soldiers, and it's a perfectly Sunday one;
    It's a Church Parade: you'll have to be a lot of officers and men,
             Mary'll do for a few wives and families, and I'll be Chaplain
             to the Forces and pray for everyone at the war."
    So he put his nightgown over his knickerbocker suit, and knelt on the
             Ashantee stool, and Mary and I knelt on the floor.
    I think it was rather nice of Dick, for he said what put it into
             his head
    Was thinking they mightn't have much time for their prayers on active
             service, and we ought to say them instead.
    I should have liked to parade the lead soldiers, but I didn't, for
             Mother says, "What's the good of being a soldier's son if
             you can't do as you're bid?"
    But we thought there'd be no harm in letting the box be there if we
             kept on the lid.
    Dick couldn't pray out of the Prayer-book, because he's backward with
             being delicate, and he can't read;
    So he had to make a prayer out of his own head, and I think he did it
             very well indeed.
    He began, "GOD save the Queen, and the Army and the Navy, and the
             Irregular Forces and the Volunteers!
    Especially Old Father (he went out with the first draft, and he's a
             Captain in the Royal Engineers").
    But I said, "I don't think 'GOD save the Queen' is a proper prayer,
             I think it's only a sort of three cheers."
    So he said, "GOD bless the Generals, and the Colonels, and the Majors,
             and the Captains, and the Lieutenants, and the
             Sub-lieutenants, and the Quartermasters, and the
             non-commissioned officers, and the men;
    And the bands, and the colours, and the guns, and the horses and the
             wagons, and the gun-carriage they use for the funerals; and
             please I should like them all to come home safe again.
    (Don't, Mary! I haven't finished; it isn't time for you to say Amen.)
    I haven't prayed for the Chaplains, or the Doctors who help the poor
             men left groaning on the ground when the victories are won;
    And I want to pray particularly for the very poor ones who die of fever
             and miss all the fighting and fun.
    GOD bless the good soldiers, like Old Father, and Captain Powder,
             and the men with good-conduct medals; and please let the
             naughty ones all be forgiven;
    And if the black men kill our men, send down white angels to take
             their poor dear souls to Heaven!
    _Now_ you may both say Amen, and I shall give out hymn four hundred
             and thirty-seven."
    There are eight verses and eight Alleluias, and we can't sing very
             well, but we did our best,
    Only Mary would cry in the verse about "Soon, soon to faithful
             warriors comes their rest!"
    But we're both very glad Dick has found out a Sunday game about
             fighting, for we never had one before;
    And now we can play at soldiers every day till Old Father comes
             home from the war.

    "TOUCH HIM IF YOU DARE."

    A TALE OF THE HEDGE.

    HEDGE-PLANTS.

    "Beware!
       We advise you to take care.
    He lodges with us, so we know him well,
               And can tell
       You all about him,
    And we strongly advise you not to flout him."

    DANDELION.

    "At my time of life," said the Dandelion,
                "I keep an eye on
    The slightest sign of disturbance and riot,
    For my one object is to keep quiet
    The reason I take such very great care,"
    The old Dandy went on, "is because of my hair.
    It was very thick once, and as yellow as gold;
              But now I am old,
              It is snowy-white,
              And comes off with the slightest fright.
              As to using a brush--
              My good dog! I beseech you, don't rush,
              Go quietly by me, if you please
              You're as bad as a breeze.
    I hope you'll attend to what we've said;
    And--whatever you do--don't touch my head,
    In this equinoctial, blustering weather
    You might knock it off with a feather."

    THISTLE.

    Said the Thistle, "I can tickle,
    But not as a Hedgehog can prickle;
    Even my tough old friend the Moke
    Would find our lodger no joke."

    DOG-ROSE.

    "I have thorns," sighed the Rose,
    "But they don't protect me like those;
    He can pull his thorns right over his nose."

    NETTLE.

    "My sting," said the Nettle,
    "Is nothing to his when he's put on his mettle.
    No nose can endure it,
    No dock-leaves will cure it."

    DOG.

    "Bow-wow!" said the Dog:
    "All this fuss about a Hedgehog?
    Though I never saw one before--
               There's my paw!
    Good-morning, Sir! Do you never stir?
               You look like an overgrown burr.
    Good-day, I-say:
    Will you have a game of play?
    With your humped-up back and your spines on end,
    You remind me so of an intimate friend,
               The Persian Puss
               Who lives with us.
               How well I know her tricks!
               The dear creature!
    Just when you're sure you can reach her,
    In the twinkling of a couple of sticks
    She saves herself by her heels,
    And looks down at you out of the apple-tree, with eyes like catherine
             wheels.
               The odd part of it is,
    I could swear that I could not possibly miss
    Her silky, cumbersome, traily tail,
    And that's just where I always fail.
    But you seem to have nothing, Sir, of the sort;
    And I should be mortified if you thought
               That I'm stupid at sport;
    I assure you I don't often meet my match,
    Where I chase I commonly catch.
               I've caught cats,
               And rats,
    And (between ourselves) I once caught a sheep,
    And I think I could catch a weasel asleep."

    HEDGE-PLANTS.

    From the whole of the hedge there rose a shout,
    "Oh! you'll catch it, no doubt!
    But remember we gave you warning fair,
              Touch him if you dare!"

    DOG.

    "If I dare?" said the Dog--"Take that!"
    As he gave the Hedgehog a pat.
    But oh, how he pitied his own poor paw;
    And shook it and licked it, it was so sore.

    DANDELION.

    "It's much too funny by half,"
    Said the Dandelion; "it makes me ill,
    For I cannot keep still,
    And my hair comes out if I laugh."

    The Hedgehog he spoke never a word,
            And he never stirred;
    His peeping eyes, his inquisitive nose,
            And his tender toes,
    Were all wrapped up in his prickly clothes.
    A provoking enemy you may suppose!
    And a dangerous one to flout--
    Like a well-stocked pin-cushion inside out.

    The Dog was valiant, the Dog was vain,
    He flew at the prickly ball again,
    Snapping with all his might and main,
            But, oh! the pain!
    He sat down on his stumpy tail and howled,
    Then he laid his jaws on his paws and growled.

    DANDELION.

    With laughter the Dandelion shook--
    "It passes a printed book;
    It's as good as a play, I declare,
    But it's cost me half my back hair!"
    The Dog he made another essay,
    It really and truly was very plucky--
    But "third times," you know, are not always lucky--
    And this time he ran away!

    HEDGE-PLANTS.

    Then the Hedge-plants every one
    Rustled together, "What fun! what fun!
                The battle is done,
                The victory won.
    Dear Hedge-pig, pray come out of the Sun."

    The Hedge-pig put forth his snout,
    He sniffed hither and thither and peeped about;
    Then he tucked up his prickly clothes,
    And trotted away on his tender toes
    To where the hedge-bottom is cool and deep,
    Had a slug for supper, and went to sleep.
    His leafy bed-clothes cuddled his chin,
    And all the Hedge-plants tucked him in.

    But the hairs and the tears that we shed
                Never can be recalled;
    And when _he_ too went off, in hysterics, to bed,
                DANDELION was bald.

    MOTHER'S BIRTHDAY REVIEW.

    BROTHER BILL.

    To have a good birthday for a grown-up person is very difficult indeed;
    We don't give it up, for Mother says the harder things are, the harder
             you must try till you succeed.
    Still, _our_ birthdays are different; we want so many things, and
             choosing your own pudding, and even half-holidays are treats;
    But what can you do for people who always order the dinner, and never
             have lessons, and don't even like sweets?
    I know Mother does not. Baby put a big red comfit in her mouth, and I
             saw her take it out again on the sly;
    I don't believe she even enjoys going a-gypseying, for she gets
             neuralgia if she stands about where it isn't dry.
    And how can you boil the kettle if you're not near the brook? But it's
             the last time she shall go there,
    I told her so; I said, "What's the good of having five sons, except to
             mount guard over you, you Queen of all Mothers that
             ever were?"
    But she's not easy to manage, and she shams sometimes, and shamming is
             a thing I can't bear.
    She shammed about the red comfit, when she didn't think Baby could
             see her;
    And (because they're the only things we can think of for birthday
             presents for her) she shams wearing out a needle-book and a
             pin-cushion every year.
    The only things we can think of for Father are paper-cutters; but
             there's no sham about _his_ wearing _them_ out;
    He would always lose them, long before his next birthday, if Mother
             did not keep finding them lying about.
    Last year's paper-cutter was as big as a sword (not as big as Father's
             sword, but as big as a wooden one, like ours),
    And he left it behind in a railway-carriage, when he'd had it just
             thirty-six hours;
    So we knew he was ready for another. It was Mother's birthday that
             bothered us so;

    [Illustration: Review of the Household Troops

    And if it hadn't been for Dolly's Major (he's her Godfather, and she
             calls him "my Major"), what we should have done I really
             don't know!
    He said, "What's the matter?" And Dolly said,
    "Mother's birthday's the matter." And I said, "We can't think what
             to devise
    To give her a birthday treat that won't give her neuralgia, and will
             take her by surprise.
    Look here, Major! How can you give people treats who can order what
             they wish for far better than you?
    I wonder what they do for the Queen!--her birthday must be the hardest
             of all." But he said, "Not a bit of it! They have a review:
    Cocked hats and all the rest of it; and a salute, and a _feu de joie_,
             and a March-Past.
    That's the way we keep the Queen's Birthday; and every year the same
             as the last."
    So I settled at once to have a Mother's Birthday Review; and that she
             should be Queen, and I should be the General in command.
    I thought she couldn't come to any harm by sitting in a fur cloak and
             a birthday wreath at the window, and bowing and waving
             her hand.
    We did not tell her what was coming, we only asked for leave to have
             all the seven donkeys for an hour and a half;
    (We always hire them from the same old man)--two for the girls, and
             five for me and my brothers--I told him, "for me and
             my Staff."
    We could have managed with five, if the girls would only have been
             Maids of Honour, and stayed indoors with the Queen.
    Maggie would if I'd asked her; but Dolly will go her own way, and
             that's into the thick of everything, to see whatever there
             is to be seen.
    She's only four years old, but she's ridiculously like the picture
             of an ancient ancestress of ours
    Who defended an old castle in Cornwall, against the French, for
             hours and hours.
    Her husband was away, so she was in command, and all her household
             obeyed her;
    She made them strip the lead off the roofs, and they did, and she
             boiled it down and gave it very hot indeed to the
    Maggie would have let the French in; she doesn't like me to say so,
             but I know she would,--you can get anything out of Maggie
             by talking.

    She likes to hire a donkey, and then sham she'd rather not ride, for
             fear of being too heavy; and to take Spike out for a run,
             and then carry him to save him the trouble of walking.
    But she's very good; she made all our cocked hats, and at the review
             she and Dolly and Spike were the loyal crowd.
    Dick and Tom and Harry were the troops, and I was the General, and
             Mother looked quite like a Queen at the window, and bowed.
    The donkeys made very good chargers on the whole, and especially mine;
    Jem's was the only one that gave trouble, and neither fair means nor
             foul would keep him in line.
    Just when I'd dressed all their noses to a nice level (you can do
             nothing with their ears), then back went Jem's brute,
    And Jem caught him a whack with the flat of his sword (a thing you
             never see done on the Staff), and it rather spoilt the salute;
    But the spirit of the troops was excellent, and we'd a _feu de joie_
             with penny pistols (Jem's donkey was the only one that shied),
             and Dolly's Major says that, all things considered, he never
             saw a better March-Past;
    And Mother was delighted with her first Birthday Review, and she is
             none the worse for it, and says she only hopes that it won't
             be the last.

    [Footnote 5: Dame Elizabeth Treffry (_temp._ Henry VI.) defended Place
    House, Fowey, Cornwall, in the circumstances and with the
    vigorous measures described. On his return her husband wisely
    "Embattled all the walls of the house, and in a manner made it
    a Castelle, and unto this day it is the glorie of the town building
    in Faweye."--_Carew_. The beauties of Place Castle remain to

    DOLLY.

    They call me Dolly, but I'm not a doll, and I'm not a baby, though
             Baby is sometimes my name;
    I behave beautifully at meals, and at church, and I can put on my
             own boots, and can say a good deal of the Catechism, and ride
             a donkey, and play at any boys' game.
    I've ridden a donkey that kicks (at least I rode him as long as I was
             on), and a donkey that rolls, and an old donkey that
             goes lame.
    I mean to ride like a lady now, but that's because I ought, not because
             I easily can;
    For what with your legs and your pommels (I mean the saddle's pommels),
             it would be much easier always to ride like a man.
    Boys _look_ braver, but I think it's really more dangerous to ride
             sideways, because of the saddle slipping round.
    (I didn't cry; I played at slipping round the world, and getting to
             New Zealand with my head upside down on the ground.)
    The reason the saddle is slippery is not because it's smooth,
             for it's rather rough; and there's a hard ridge behind,
    And the horse's hair coming through the donkey's back (I mean through
             his saddle) scratches you
    dreadfully; but I tuck my things under me, and pretend I don't mind.
    They work out again though, particularly when they are starched, and
             I think frocks get shorter every time they go to the wash;
    But I don't complain; if it's very uncomfortable, I make an ugly face
             to myself, and say, "Bosh!"
    We've all of us had a good deal of practice, so we ought to know
             how to ride;
    We've ridden a great deal since we came to live on the Heath, and we
             rode a good deal when Father was stationed at the sea-side.
    My Major taught me to ride sideways, and at first he would hold me on;
    But I don't like being touched; and I don't call it riding like a lady
             if you're held on by an officer, and I'd rather tumble off if
             I can't stick on by myself; so I sent him away, and the nasty
             saddle slipped round directly he was gone.
    I only crushed my sun-bonnet, and the donkey stood quite still. (We
             always call that one "the old stager.")
    I wasn't frightened, except just the tiniest bit; but he says he was
             dreadfully frightened. So I said, "Then you ought to be
             ashamed of yourself, considering all your medals, and that
             you're a Major."
    He likes me very much, and I like him, and when my fifth birthday
             comes, he says I'm to choose a donkey, and he'll buy it for
             me, but the saddle and bridle shall be quite new;
    So I've made up my mind to choose the one Brother Bill had for his
             charger at Mother's Birthday Review;
    And Maggie is so glad, she says her life is quite miserable with
             thinking how miserable other lives are, if only we knew.
    Maggie loves every creature that lives; she won't confess to black
             beetles, but she can't stamp on them (I've stamped out lots
             in my winter boots), and she doesn't even think a donkey
             ugly when he brays;
    And she says she shall buy a brush, out of her pocket-money, and brush
             my donkey every day till he looks like a horse, and that it
             shan't be her fault if there isn't one poor old brute beast
             who lives happily to the end of his days.

    JACK ASS.

    The dew falls over the Heath, Brother Donkeys, and the darkness falls,
             but still through the gathering night
    All around us spreads the Heath Bed-straw[6] in glimmering sheets of
             white.
    Dragged and trampled, and plucked and wasted, it patiently spreads
             and survives;
    Kicked and thwacked, and prodded and over-laden, we patiently cling
             to our lives.
    Hee-haw! for the rest and silence of darkness that follow the labours
             of light.
    Hee-haw! for the hours from night to morning, that balance the hours
             from morning to night.
    Hee-haw! for the sweet night air that gives human beings cold in
             the head.
    Hee-haw! for the civilization that sends human beings to bed.
    Rest, Brother Donkeys, rest, from the bit, the burden, the blow,
    The dust, the flies, the restless children, the brutal roughs, the
             greedy donkey-master, the greedier donkey-hirer, the
             holiday-maker who knows no better, and the holiday-makers
             who ought to know!
    When the odorous furze-bush prickles the seeking nose, and the short
             damp grass refreshes the tongue,--lend, Brother Donkeys, lend
             a long and attentive ear!
                Whilst I proudly bray
                Of the one bright day
            In our hard and chequered career.
    I've dragged pots, and vegetables, and invalids, and
    fish, and I've galloped with four costermongers to the races;
    I've carried babies, and sea-coal, and sea-sand, and sea-weed in
             panniers, and been sold to the gypsies, and been bought back
             for the sea-side, and ridden (in a white saddle-cloth with
             scarlet braid) by the fashionable visitors. (There was always
             a certain distinction in my paces,
    Though I say it who shouldn't) I've spent a summer on the Heath, and
             next winter near Covent Garden, and moved the following year
             to the foot of a mountain, to take people up to the top to
             show them the view.
    But how little we know what's before us! And how little I guessed I
             should ever be chief charger at a Queen's Birthday Review!
    Did I triumph alone? No, Brother Donkeys, no! You also took your place
             with the defenders of the nation;
    Subordinate positions to my own, but meritoriously filled, though a
             little more style would have well become so great an occasion.
    That malevolent old Moke--may his next thistle choke him!--disgraced us
             all with his jibbing--the ill-tempered old ass!
    Young Neddy is shaggy and shy, but not amiss, if he'd held his ears up,
             and not kept his eyes on the grass.
    Nothing is more je-june (I may say vulgar) than to seem anxious to eat
             when the crisis calls for public spirit, enthusiasm, and an
             elevated tone;
    And I wish, Brother Donkeys, I wish that all had felt as I felt, the
             responsibility of a March-Past the Throne!
    Respect and self-respect delicately blended; one ear up, and the other
             lowered to salute, as I passed the window from which we
             were seen
    (Unless I grievously misunderstood the young General this morning,) by
             no less a personage than her Most Gracious Majesty THE QUEEN.
    Sleep, Brother Donkeys, sleep! But I fancy you're sleeping already,
             for you make no reply;
    Not a quiver of your ears, not a sign from your motionless drooping
             noses, dark against the dusky night sky.
    As black and immovable as the silent fir-trees you solemnly
             slumber beneath,
    Whilst I wakefully meditate on a glorious past, and painfully ponder
             the future, as the dews fall over the Heath.

    [Footnote 6: Heath bed-straw (_Galium Saxatile_). This white-flowered

    THE PROMISE.

    CHILD.

            Five blue eggs hatching,
            With bright eyes watching,
    Little brown mother, you sit on your nest.

    BIRD.

            Oh! pass me blindly,
            Oh! spare me kindly,
    Pity my terror, and leave me to rest.

    CHORUS OF CHILDREN.

            Hush! hush! hush!
            'Tis a poor mother thrush.
    When the blue eggs hatch, the brown birds will sing--
    This is a promise made in the Spring.

    CHILD.

            Five speckled thrushes
            In leafy bushes
    Singing sweet songs to the hot Summer sky.
            In and out twitting,
            Here and there flitting,
    Happy is life as the long days go by.

    CHORUS.

          Hush! hush! hush!
          'Tis the song of the thrush:
    Hatched are the blue eggs; the brown birds do sing--
    Keeping the promise made in the Spring.

    Published in _Aunt Judy's Magazine_, July 1866, with music by
    Alexander Ewing.

    CONVALESCENCE.

    Hold my hand, little Sister, and nurse my head, whilst I try to
             remember the word,
    What was it?--that the doctor says is now fairly established both
             in me and my bird.
    C-O-N-_con_, _with a con_, S-T-A-N-_stan_, _with a stan_--No! That's
             Constantinople, that is
    The capital of the country where rhubarb-and-magnesia comes from, and
             I wish they would keep it in that country, and not send
             it to this.
    C-O-N-_con_--how my head swims! Now I've got it!
             C-O-N-V-A-L-E-S-C-E-N-C-E.
    _Convalescence!_ And that's what the doctor says is now fairly
             established both in my blackbird and me.
    He says it means that you are better, and that you'll be well
             by and by.
    And so the Sea-captain says, and he says we ought to be friends,
             because we're both convalescents--at least we're all three
             convalescents, my blackbird, and the Captain and I.
    He's a sea-captain, not a land-captain, but, all the same, he was
             in the war,
    And he fought,--for I asked him,--and he's been ill ever since, and
             that's why he's not afloat, but ashore;
    And why somebody else has got his ship; and she behaved so beautifully
             in the battle, and he loves her quite as much as his wife,
             and rather better than the rest of his relations, for I asked
             him; and now he's afraid she will never belong to him
             any more.
    I like him. I've seen him three times out walking with two sticks, when
             I was driving in the bath-chair, but I never talked to him
             till to-day.
    He'd only one stick and a telescope, and he let me look through it at
             the big ship that was coming round the corner into the bay.
    He was very kind, and let me ask questions. I said, "Are you a
             sea-captain?" and he said, "Yes." And I said, "How funny it
             is about land things and sea things!
    There are captains and sea-captains, and weeds and sea-weeds, and
             serpents and sea-serpents. Did you ever meet one, and is it
             really like the dragons on our very old best blue tea-things?"
    But he never did. So I asked him, "Have you got convalescence? Does
             your doctor say it is fairly established? Do your eyes ache
             if you try to read, and your neck if you draw, and your back
             if you sit up, and your head if you talk?
    Don't you get tired of doing nothing, and worse tired still if you do
             anything; and does everything wobble about when you walk?
    Wouldn't you rather go back to bed? I think I would. Don't you wish
             you were well? Wouldn't you rather be ill than only better?
             I do hate convalescence, don't you?"
    Then I stopped asking, and he shut up his telescope, and sat down on
             the shingle, and said, "When you come to my age, little chap,
             you won't think 'What is it I'd rather have?' but, 'What is
             it I've got to do?'
    'What have I got to do or to bear; and how can I do it or bear
             it best?'
    That's the only safe point to make for, my lad. Make for it, and
             leave the rest!"
    I said, "But _wouldn't_ you rather be in battles than in bed, with
             your head aching as if it would split?"
    And he said, "Of course I would; so would most men. But, my little
             convalescent, that's not it.
    What would _you_ think of a man who was ordered into battle, and went
             grumbling and wishing he were in bed?"
    "What should I think of the fellow? Why, I should know he was a
             coward," I said.
    "And if he were confined to bed," said the Sea-captain, "and lay
             grumbling and wishing he were in battle, I should give
             him no better a name;
    For the courage that dares, and the courage that bears, are really
             one and the same."
    Hold my hand, little Sister, and nurse my head, for I'm thinking, and
             I very much fear
    You've had no good of being well since I was ill; I've led you such a
             life; but indeed I am obliged to you, dear!
    Is it true that Nurse has got something the matter with her legs, and
             that Mary has gone home because she's worn out with nursing,
    And won't be fit to work for months? (will _she_ be convalescent,
             because it was such hard work waiting on _me_?) and did Cook
             say, "So much grumbling and complaining is nigh as big a sin
             as swearing and cursing"?
    I wish I hadn't been so cross with poor Mary, and I wish I hadn't given
             so much trouble about my medicine and my food.
    I didn't think about her. I only thought what a bother it was. I wish
             I hadn't thought so much about being miserable, that I never
             thought of trying to be good.
    I believe the Sea-captain is right, and I shall tell him so to-morrow,
             when he comes here to tea;
    He's going to look at my blackbird's leg, and if it is really set, he
             wants me to let it go free.
    He says captivity is worse than convalescence, and so I should think
             it must be.
    Are you tired, little Sister? You feel shaky. Don't beg my pardon; I
             beg yours. I've not let you go out of my sight for weeks.
             Get your things on, and have a gallop on Jack.
    Ride round this way and let me see you. I won't say a word about
             wishing I was going too; and if my head gets bad whilst
             you're away, I will bear it my very best till you come back.
    Tell me one thing before you start. If I learn to be patient, shall I
             learn to be brave, do you think? The Sea-captain says so.
    He says, "Self-command is the making of a man," and he's a finely-made
             man himself, so he ought to know.
    Perhaps, if I try hard at Convalescence now, I may become a brave
             sea-captain hereafter, and take my beautiful ship into battle,
             and bring her out again with flying colours and fame,
    If the courage that dares, and the courage that bears, _are_ really
             one and the same.

    THE ADVENTURES OF AN ELF.

    A PICTURE POEM FOR THE LITTLE ONES.

    _By Fedor Flinzer. Freely translated by J.H. Ewing._

    I.

    Dear children, listen whilst I tell
    What to a certain Elf befell,
    Who left his house and sallied forth
    Adventure seeking, south and north,
    And west and east, by path and field,
    Resolved to conquer or to yield.
    A thimble on his back he carried,
    With a rose-twig his foes he parried.

    II.

    It was a sunny, bright, spring day,
    When to the wood he took his way;
    He knew that in a certain spot
    A Bumble Bee his nest had got.
    The Bee was out, the chance was good,
    But just when grabbing all he could,
    He heard the Bee behind him humming,
    And only wished he'd heard him coming!

    III.

    In terror turned the tiny man,
    And now a famous fight began:
    The Bee flew round, and buzzed and stung,
    The Elf his prickly rose-staff swung.
    Now fiercely here, now wildly there,
    He hit the Bee or fought the air.
    At last one weighty blow descended:
    The Bee was dead--the fight was ended.

    IV.

    Exhausted quite, he took a seat.
    The honey tasted doubly sweet!
    The thimble-full had been upset,
    But still there were a few drops yet.
    He licked his lips and blessed himself,
    That he was such a lucky Elf,
    And now might hope to live in clover;
    But, ah! his troubles were not over!

    V.

    For at that instant, by his side,
    A beast of fearful form he spied:
    At first he thought it was a bear,
    And headlong fell in dire despair.
    He lost one slipper in the moss,
    And this was not his only loss.
    With paws and snout the beast was nimble,
    And very soon cleared out the thimble.

    VI.

    This rifling of his honey-pot
    Awoke our Elfin's wrath full hot.
    He made a rope of linden bast,
    By either end he held it fast,
    And creeping up behind the beast,
    Intent upon the honey feast,
    Before it had the slightest inkling,
    The rope was round it in a twinkling.

    VII.

    The mouse shrieked "Murder!" "Fire!" and "Thieves!"
    And struggled through the twigs and leaves.
    It pulled the reins with all its might,
    Our hero only drew them tight.
    Upon the mouse's back he leapt,
    And like a man his seat he kept.
    His steed was terribly affrighted,
    But he himself was much delighted.

    VIII.

    "Gee up, my little horse!" he cried,
    "I mean to have a glorious ride;
    So bear me forth with lightning speed,
    A Knight resolved on doughty deed.
    The wide world we will gallop round,
    And clear the hedges at one bound."
    The mouse set off, the hero bantered,
    And out into the world they cantered.

    IX.

    At last they rode up to an inn:
    "Good Mr. Host, pray who's within?"
    "My daughter serves the customers,
    Before the fire the Tom-cat purrs."
    For further news they did not wait--
    The mouse sprang through the garden-gate--
    They fled without a look behind them.
    The question is--Did Thomas find them?

    SONGS FOR MUSIC

    SERENADE.

    I would not have you wake for me,
      Fair lady, though I love you!
    And though the night is warm, and all
      The stars are out above you;
    And though the dew's so light it could
      Not hurt your little feet,
    And nightingales in yonder wood
      Are singing passing sweet.

    Yet may my plaintive strain unite
      And mingle with your dreaming,
    And through the visions of the night
      Just interweave my seeming.
    Yet no! sleep on with fancy free
      In that untroubled breast;
    No song of mine, no thought of me,
      Deserves to break your rest!

    MAIDEN WITH THE GIPSY LOOK.

    Maiden with the gipsy look,
    Dusky locks and russet hue,
    Open wide thy Sybil's book,
    Tell my fate and tell it true;
    Shall I live? or shall I die?
    Timely wed, or single be?
    Maiden with the gipsy eye,
    Read my riddle unto me!

    Maiden with the gipsy face,
    If thou canst not tell me all,
    Tell me thus much, of thy grace,
    Should I climb, or fear to fall?
    Should I dare, or dread to dare?
    Should I speak, or silent be?
    Maiden with the gipsy hair,
    Read my riddle unto me!

    Maiden with the gipsy hair,
    Deep into thy mirror look,
    See my love and fortune there,
    Clearer than in Sybil's book:
    Let me cross thy slender palm,
    Let me learn my fate from thee;
    Maiden with the gipsy charm,
    Read my riddle unto me.

    AH! WOULD I COULD FORGET.

    The whispering water rocks the reeds,
    And, murmuring softly, laps the weeds;
    And nurses there the falsest bloom
    That ever wrought a lover's doom.
      Forget me not! Forget me not!
        Ah! would I could forget!
      But, crying still, "Forget me not,"
        Her image haunts me yet.

    We wander'd by the river's brim,
    The day grew dusk, the pathway dim;
    Her eyes like stars dispell'd the gloom,
    Her gleaming fingers pluck'd the bloom.
      Forget me not! Forget me not!
        Ah! would I could forget!
      But, crying still, "Forget me not,"
        Her image haunts me yet.

    The pale moon lit her paler face,
    And coldly watch'd our last embrace,
    And chill'd her tresses' sunny hue,
    And stole that flower's turquoise blue.
      Forget me not! Forget me not!
        Ah! would I could forget!
      But, crying still, "Forget me not,"
        Her image haunts me yet.

    The fateful flower droop'd to death,
    The fair, false maid forswore her faith;
    But I obey a broken vow,
    And keep those wither'd blossoms now!
      Forget me not! Forget me not!
        Ah! would I could forget!
      But, crying still, "Forget me not,"
        Her image haunts me yet.

    Sweet lips that pray'd--"Forget me not!"
    Sweet eyes that will not be forgot!
    Recall your prayer, forego your power,
    Which binds me by the fatal flower.
      Forget me not! Forget me not!
        Ah! would I could forget!
      But, crying still, "Forget me not,"
        Her image haunts me yet.

    MADRIGAL.

    Life is full of trouble,
      Love is full of care,
    Joy is like a bubble
      Shining in the air,
        For you cannot
      Grasp it anywhere.

    Love is not worth getting,
      It doth fade so fast.
    Life is not worth fretting
      Which so soon is past;
        And you cannot
      Bid them longer last.

    Yet for certain fellows
      Life seems true and strong;
    And with some, they tell us,
      Love will linger long;
        Thus they cannot
      Understand my song.

    A SONG OF SECOND SIGHT.

    Elleree! O Elleree!
    Seeing what none else may see,
    Dost thou see the man in grey?
    Dost thou hear the night hounds bay?
      Elleree! O Elleree!
    Seventh son of seventh son,
    All thy thread of life is spun,
    Thy little race is nearly run,
      And death awaits for thee!

    Elleree! O Elleree!
    Coronach shall wail for thee;
    Get thee shrived and get thee blest,
    Get thee ready for thy rest,
      Elleree! O Elleree!
    That thou owest quickly give,
    What thou ownest thou must leave,
    And those thou lovest best shall grieve,
      But all in vain for thee!

    "Bodach Glas!"[8] the chieftain said,
    "All my debts but one are paid,
    All I love have long been dead,
    All my hopes on Heaven are stay'd,
      Death to me can bring no dole;"
    Thus the Elleree replied;--
    But with ebbing of the tide
    As sinks the setting sun he died;--
      May Christ receive his soul!

    [Footnote 7: "Elleree" is the name of one who has the gift of second

    [Footnote 8: "Bodach Glas," the Man in Grey, appears to a Highland

    OTHER STARS.

    The night is dark, and yet it is not quite:
      Those stars are hid that other orbs may shine;
    Twin stars, whose rays illuminate the night,
      And cheer her gloom, but only deepen mine;
        For these fair stars are not what they do seem,
        But vanish'd eyes remember'd in a dream.

    The night is dark, and yet it brings no rest;
      Those eager eyes gaze on and banish sleep;
    Though flaming Mars has lower'd his crimson crest,
      And weary Venus pales into the deep,
        These two with tender shining mock my woe
        From out the distant heaven of long ago.

    The night is dark, and yet how bright they gleam!
      Oh! empty vision of a vanish'd light!
    Sweet eyes! must you for ever be a dream
      Deep in my heart, and distant from my sight?
        For could you shine as once you shone before,
        The stars might hide their rays for evermore!

    FADED FLOWERS.

    My love she sent a flower to me
    Of tender hue and fragrance rare,
    And with it came across the sea
    A letter kind as she was fair;
    But when her letter met mine eyes,
    The flower, the little flower, was dead:
    And ere I touched the tender prize
    The hues were dim, the fragrance fled.

    I sent my love a letter too,
    In happy hope no more to roam;
    I bade her bless the vessel true
    Whose gallant sails should waft me home.
    But ere my letter reach'd her hand,
    My love, my little love, was dead,
    And when the vessel touch'd the land,
    Fair hope for evermore had fled.

    SPEED WELL.

    What time I left my native land,
      And bade farewell to my true love,
    She laid a flower in my hand
      As azure as the sky above.
        "Speed thee well! Speed well!"
      She softly whispered, "Speed well!
          This flower blue
          Be token true
      Of my true heart's true love for you!"

    Its tender hue is bright and pure,
      As heav'n through summer clouds doth show,
    A pledge though clouds thy way obscure,
      It shall not be for ever so.
        "Speed thee well! Speed well!"
      She softly whisper'd, "Speed well!
          This flower blue
          Be token true
      Of my true heart's true love for you!"

    And as I toil through help and harm,
      And whilst on alien shores I dwell,
    I wear this flower as a charm,
      My heart repeats that tender spell:
        "Speed thee well! Speed well!"
      It softly whispers, "Speed well!
          This flower blue
          Be token true
    Of my true heart's true love for you!"

    HOW MANY YEARS AGO?

    How many years ago, love,
      Since you came courting me?
    Through oak-tree wood and o'er the lea,
      With rosy cheeks and waistcoat gay,
      And mostly not a word to say,--
        How many years ago, love,
        How many years ago?

    How many years ago, love,
      Since you to Father spoke?
    Between your lips a sprig of oak:
      You were not one with much to say,
      But Mother spoke for you that day,--
        How many years ago, love,
        How many years ago?

    So many years ago, love,
      That soon our time must come
    To leave our girl without a home;--
      She's like her mother, love, you've said:
     --At her age I had long been wed,--
        How many years ago, love,
        How many years ago?

    For love of long-ago, love,
      If John has aught to say,
    When he comes up to us to-day,
      (A likely lad, though short of tongue,)
      Remember, husband, we were young,--
        How many years ago, love,
        How many years ago?

    "WITH A DIFFERENCE."

    I'm weary waiting here,
      The chill east wind is sighing,
    The autumn tints are sere,
      The summer flowers are dying.
    The river's sullen way
      Winds on through vacant meadows,
    The dying light of day
      Strives vainly with the shadows.

    A footstep stirs the leaves!
      The faded fields seem brighter,
    The sunset gilds the sheaves,
      The low'ring clouds look lighter.
    The river sparkles by,
      Not all the flowers are falling,
    There's azure in the sky,
      And thou, my love, art calling.

    THE LILY OF THE LAKE.

    Over wastes of blasted heather,
    Where the pine-trees stand together,
    Evermore my footsteps wander,
    Evermore the shadows yonder
                Deepen into gloom.
    Where there lies a silent lake,
    No song-bird there its thirst may slake,
    No sunshine now to whiteness wake
                The water-lily's bloom.

    Some sweet spring-time long departed,
    I and she, the simple-hearted,
    Bride and bridegroom, maid and lover,
    Did that gloomy lake discover,
                Did those lilies see.
    There we wandered side by side.
    There it was they said she died.
    But ah! in this I know they lied!
                She will return to me!

    Never, never since that hour
    Has the lake brought forth a flower.
    Ever harshly do the sedges
    Some sad secret from its edges
                Whisper to the shore.
    Some sad secret I forget.
    The lily though will blossom yet:
    And when it blooms I shall have met
                My love for evermore.

    FROM FLEETING PLEASURES.

    A REQUIEM FOR ONE ALIVE.

    From fleeting pleasures and abiding cares,
    From sin's seductions and from Satan's snares,
    From woes and wrath to penitence and prayers,
                        Veni in pace!

    Sweet absolution thy sad spirit heal;
    To godly cares that end in endless weal,
    To joys man cannot think or speak or feel,
                        Vade in pace!

    From this world's ways and being led by them,
    From floods of evil thy youth could not stem,
    From tents of Kedar to Jerusalem,
                        Veni in pace!

    Blest be thy worldly loss to thy soul's gain,
    Blest be the blow that freed thee from thy chain,
    Blest be the tears that wash thy spirit's stain,
                        Vade in pace!

    Oh, dead, and yet alive! Oh, lost and found!
    Salvation's walls now compass thee around,
    Thy weary feet are set on holy ground.
                        Veni in pace!

    Death gently garner thee with all the blest,
    In heavenly habitations be thou guest;
    To light perpetual and eternal rest,
                        Vade in pace!

    THE RUNAWAY'S RETURN.

        It was on such a night as this,
          Some long unreal years ago,
        When all within were wrapp'd in sleep,
          And all without was wrapp'd in snow,
        The full moon rising in the east,
          The old church standing like a ghost,
        That, shivering in the wintry mist,
          And breathless with the silent frost,
    A little lad, I ran to seek my fortune on the main;
    I marvel now with how much hope and with how little pain!

        It is of such a night as this,
          In all the lands where I have been,
        That memory too faithfully
          Has painted the familiar scene.
        By all the shores, on every sea,
          In luck or loss, by night or day,
        My highest hope has been to see
          That home from which I ran away.
    For this I toil'd, to this I look'd through many a weary year,
    I marvel now with how much hope, and with how little fear.

        On such a night at last I came,
          But they were dead I loved of yore.
        Ah, Mother, then my heart felt all
          The pain it should have felt before!
        I came away, though loth to come,
          I clung, and yet why should I cling?
        When all have gone who made it home,
          It is the shadow, not the thing.
    A homeless man, once more I seek my fortune on the main:
    I marvel with how little hope, and with what bitter pain.

    FANCY FREE.

    A GIRL'S SONG.

    With bark and bound and frolic round
      My dog and I together run;
    While by our side a brook doth glide,
      And laugh and sparkle in the sun.
    We ask no more of fortune's store
      Than thus at our sweet wills to roam:
    And drink heart's ease from every breeze
      That blows about the hills of home.
                      As, fancy free,
                      With game and glee,
                      We happy three
                      Dance down the glen.

    And yet they say that some fine day
      This vagrant stream may serve a mill;
    My doggy guard a master's yard;
      My free heart choose another's will.
    How this may fare we little care,
      My dog and I, as still we run!
    Whilst by our side the brook doth glide,
      And laugh and sparkle in the sun.
                      For, fancy free,
                      With game and glee,
                      We happy three
                      Dance down the glen.

    MY LOVE'S GIFT.

    You ask me what--since we must part--
    You shall bring home to me;
    Bring back a pure and faithful heart,
    As true as mine to thee.
      I ask not wealth nor fame,
      I only ask for thee,
      Thyself--and that dear self the same--
    My love, bring back to me!

    You talk of gems from foreign lands,
    Of treasure, spoil, and prize.
    Ah, love! I shall not search your hands,
    But look into your eyes.
      I ask not wealth nor fame,
      I only ask for thee,
      Thyself--and that dear self the same--
    My love, bring back to me!

    You speak of glory and renown,
    With me to share your pride,
    Unbroken faith is all the crown
    I ask for as your bride.
      I ask not wealth nor fame,
      I only ask for thee,
      Thyself--and that dear self the same--
    My love, bring back to me!

    You bid me with hope's eager gaze
    Behold fair fortune come.
    I only dream I see your face
    Beside the hearth at home.
      I ask not wealth nor fame,
      I do but ask for thee!
      Thyself--and that dear self the same--
    May God restore to me!

    ANEMONES.

    If I should wish hereafter that your heart
    Should beat with one fair memory of me,
    May Time's hard hand our footsteps guide apart,
    But lead yours back one spring-time to the Lea.
               Nodding Anemones,
               Wind-flowers pale,
             Bloom with the budding trees,
             Dancing to every breeze,
             Mock hopes more fair than these,
               Love's vows more frail.

    For then the grass we loved grows green again,
    And April showers make April woods more fair;
    But no sun dries the sad salt tears of pain,
    Or brings back summer lights on faded hair,
               Nodding Anemones,
               Wind-flowers pale,
             Bloom with the budding trees,
             Dancing to every breeze,
             Mock hopes more frail than these,
               Love's vows more frail.

    AUTUMN LEAVES.

    The Spring's bright tints no more are seen,
    And Summer's ample robe of green
        Is russet-gold and brown;
    When flowers fall to every breeze
    And, shed reluctant from the trees,
        The leaves drop down.

    A sadness steals about the heart,
   --And is it thus from youth we part,
        And life's redundant prime?
    Must friends like flowers fade away,
    And life like Nature know decay,
        And bow to time?

    And yet such sadness meets rebuke,
    From every copse in every nook
        Where Autumn's colours glow;
    How bright the sky! How full the sheaves!
    What mellow glories gild the leaves
        Before they go.

    Then let us sing the jocund praise,
    In this bright air, of these bright days,
        When years our friendships crown;
    The love that's loveliest when 'tis old--
    When tender tints have turned to gold
        And leaves drop down.

    HYMNS.

    CONFIRMATION.

    Long, long ago, with vows too much forgotten,
      The Cross of Christ was seal'd on every brow,
    Ah! slow of heart, that shun the Christian conflict;
      Rise up at last! The accepted time is now.
           Soldiers of Jesus! Blest who endure;
           Stand in the battle; the victory is sure.

    Hark! hark! the Saviour's voice to each is calling--
      "I bore the Cross of Death in pain for thee;
    On thee the Cross of daily life is falling:
      Children! take up the Cross and follow Me."
           Soldiers of Jesus! &c.

    Strive as God's saints have striven in all ages;
      Press those slow steps where firmer feet have trod:
    For us their lives adorn the sacred pages,
      For them a crown of glory is with God.
           Soldiers of Jesus! &c.

    Peace! peace! sweet voices bring an ancient story,
      (Such songs angelic melodies employ,)
    "Hard is the strife, but unconceived the glory:
      Short is the pain, eternal is the joy."
           Soldiers of Jesus! &c.

    On! Christian souls, all base temptations spurning,
      Drown coward thoughts in Faith's triumphant hymn;
    Since Jesus suffer'd, our salvation earning,
      Shall we not toil that we may rest with Him?
           Soldiers of Jesus! &c. Amen.

    WHITSUNTIDE.

    Come down! come down! O Holy Ghost!
      As once of old Thou didst come down
    In fiery tongues at Pentecost,
      The Apostolic heads to crown.

    Come down! though now no flame divine,
      Nor heaven-sent Dove, our sight amaze;
    Our Church still shows the outward sign,
      Thou truly givest inward grace.

    Come down! come down! on infancy,
      The babes whom Jesus deign'd to love;
    God give us grace by faith to see,
      Above the Font, the mystic Dove.

    Come down! come down! on kneeling bands
      Of those who fain would strength receive;
    And in the laying on of hands
      Bless us beyond what we believe.

    Come down! not only on the saint,
      Oh! struggle with the hard of heart,
    With wilful sin and inborn taint,
      Till lust, and wrath, and pride depart.

    Come down! come down! sweet Comforter!
      It was the promise of the Lord.
    Come down! although we grieve Thee sore,
      Not for our merits--but His Word.

    Come down! come down! not what we would,
      But what we need, O bring with Thee.
    Turn life's sore riddle to our good;
      A little while and we shall see. Amen.

    CHRISTMAS WISHES.

    A CAROL.

      Oh, happy Christmas, full of blessings, come!
          Now bid our discords cease;
          Here give the weary ease;
          Let the long-parted meet again in peace;
          Bring back the far-away;
          Grant us a holiday;
          And by the hopes of Christmas-tide we pray--
      Let love restore the fallen to his Home;
    Whilst up and down the snowy streets the Christmas minstrels sing;
    And through the frost from countless towers the bells of
             Christmas ring.

      Ah, Christ! and yet a happier day shall come!
          Then bid our discords cease;
          There give the weary ease;
          Let the long-parted meet again in peace;
          Bring back the far-away;
          Grant us a holiday;
          And by the hopes of Christmas-tide we pray--
      Let love restore the fallen to his Home;
    Whilst up and down the golden streets the blessed angels sing,
    And evermore the heavenly chimes in heavenly cadence ring.

    TEACH ME.

    _Translated from the Danish of Oehlenschlaeger._

    Teach me, O wood, to fade away,
    As autumn's yellow leaves decay
        A better spring impends,--
    Then green and glorious shall my tree
    Take deep root in eternity,--
        Whose summer never ends!

    Teach me, O bird of passage, this,
    To seek, in faith a better bliss
        On other unknown shores!
    When all is winter here and ice,
    There ever-smiling Paradise
        Unfolds its happy doors.

    Teach me, thou summer butterfly,
    To break the bonds which on me lie.
        With fetters all too firm.
    Ah, soon on golden purple wing
    The liberated soul shall spring,
         Which now creeps as a worm!

    Teach me, O Lord, to yonder skies
    To lift in hope these weary eyes
         With earthly sorrows worn.
    Good Friday was a bitter day,
    But bright the sun's eternal ray
         Which broke on Easter morn.

THE END.

_Richard Clay & Sons, Limited, London & Bungay._

_The present Series of Mrs. Ewing's Works is the only authorized,
complete, and uniform Edition published._

_It will consist of 18 volumes, Small Crown 8vo, at 2s. 6d. per vol.,
issued, as far as possible, in chronological order, and these will
appear at the rate of two volumes every two months, so that the Series
will be completed within 18 months. The device of the cover was
specially designed by a Friend of Mrs. Ewing._

_The following is a list of the books included in the Series_--

    1. MELCHIOR'S DREAM, AND OTHER TALES.

    2. MRS. OVERTHEWAY'S REMEMBRANCES.

    3. OLD-FASHIONED FAIRY TALES.

    4. A FLAT IRON FOR A FARTHING.

    5. THE BROWNIES, AND OTHER TALES.

    6. SIX TO SIXTEEN.

    7. LOB LIE-BY-THE-FIRE, AND OTHER TALES.

    8. JAN OF THE WINDMILL.

    9. VERSES FOR CHILDREN, AND SONGS.

    10. THE PEACE EGG--A CHRISTMAS MUMMING
    PLAY--HINTS FOR PRIVATE
    THEATRICALS, &c.

    11. A GREAT EMERGENCY, AND  OTHER TALES.

    12. BROTHERS OF PITY, AND OTHER TALES
    OF BEASTS AND MEN.

    13. WE AND THE WORLD, Part I.

    14. WE AND THE WORLD, Part II.

    15. JACKANAPES--DADDY DARWIN'S DOVECOTE--THE
    STORY OF A SHORT LIFE.

    16. MARY'S MEADOW, AND OTHER TALES
    OF FIELDS AND FLOWERS.

    17. MISCELLANEA, including The Mystery of the
    Bloody Hand--Wonder Stories--Tales of the
    Khoja, and other translations.

    18. JULIANA HORATIA EWING AND HER
    BOOKS, with a selection from Mrs. Ewing's
    Letters.

S.P.C.K., NORTHUMBERLAND AVENUE, LONDON, W.C.A MORAL ALPHABET.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BY THE SAME AUTHORS.

  MORE BEASTS (FOR WORSE CHILDREN).
  Demy 4to. 3s. 6d.

  THE MODERN TRAVELLER.
  Fcap. 4to. 3s. 6d.

  EDWARD ARNOLD, LONDON.

       *       *       *       *       *

A MORAL ALPHABET

by

H. B.

With Illustrations by

B. B.

Authors of "The Bad Child's Book of Beasts"
"More Beasts for Worse Children"
"The Modern Traveller" etc.

London
Edward Arnold
37 Bedford Street

  _DEDICATION._

  TO THE GENTLEMAN
  ON PAGE 49.

A

    stands for

                Archibald who told no lies,
    And got this lovely volume for a prize.

    The Upper School had combed and oiled their hair,
    And all the Parents of the Boys were there.
    In words that ring like thunder through the Hall,
    Draw tears from some and loud applause from all,--
    The Pedagogue, with Pardonable Joy,
    Bestows the Gift upon the Radiant Boy:--

    "Accept the Noblest Work produced as yet"
    (Says he) "upon the English Alphabet;
    "Next term I shall examine you, to find
    "If you have read it thoroughly. So mind!"
    And while the Boys and Parents cheered so loud,
    That out of doors

                     a large and anxious crowd
    Had gathered and was blocking up the street,
    The admirable child resumed his seat.

  MORAL.

  Learn from this justly irritating Youth,
  To brush your Hair and Teeth and tell the Truth.

B stands for Bear.

             When Bears are seen
    Approaching in the distance,
    Make up your mind at once between
       Retreat and Armed Resistance.

    A Gentleman remained to fight--
       With what result for him?
    The Bear, with ill-concealed delight,
        Devoured him, Limb by Limb.

    Another Person turned and ran;
        He ran extremely hard:
    The Bear was faster than the Man,
        And beat him by a yard.

  MORAL.

  Decisive action in the hour of need
  Denotes the Hero, but does not succeed.

C stands for Cobra; when the Cobra

                                             bites
   An Indian Judge, the Judge spends restless nights.

  MORAL.

  This creature, though disgusting and appalling,
  Conveys no kind of Moral worth recalling.

D

    The Dreadful

                             Dinotherium he
    Will have to do his best for D.
    The early world observed with awe
    His back, indented like a saw.
    His look was gay, his voice was strong;
    His tail was neither short nor long;
    His trunk, or elongated nose,
    Was not so large as some suppose;
    His teeth, as all the world allows,
    Were graminivorous, like a cow's.
    He therefore should have wished to pass
    Long peaceful nights upon the Grass,
    But being mad the brute preferred
    A creature heavier than a whale,
    You see at once, could hardly fail
    To suffer badly when he slid
    And tumbled

                             (as he always did).
    His fossil, therefore, comes to light
    All broken up: and serve him right.

  MORAL.

  If you were born to walk the ground,
  Remain there; do not fool around.

    We have good reason to suppose
    He did so, from his claw-like toes.

E

        stands for

                    Egg.

  MORAL.

          The Moral of this verse
  Is applicable to the Young. Be terse.

F

     for a

          Family taking a walk
        In Arcadia Terrace, no doubt:
    The parents indulge in intelligent talk,
        While the children they gambol about.
    At a quarter-past six they return to their tea,
    Of a kind that would hardly be tempting to me,
          Though my appetite passes belief.
    There is Jam, Ginger Beer, Buttered Toast, Marmalade,
    With a Cold Leg of Mutton and Warm Lemonade,
    And a large Pigeon Pie very skilfully made
          To consist almost wholly of Beef.

  MORAL.

  A Respectable Family taking the air
      Is a subject on which I could dwell;
  It contains all the morals that ever there were,
      And it sets an example as well.

G

    stands for Gnu, whose weapons of Defence
    Are long, sharp, curling Horns, and Common-sense.
    To these he adds a Name so short and strong,

    That even Hardy Boers pronounce it wrong.
    How often on a bright Autumnal day
    The Pious people of Pretoria say,
    "Come, let us hunt the----" Then no more is heard
    But Sounds of Strong Men struggling with a word.
    Meanwhile, the distant Gnu with grateful eyes
    Observes his opportunity, and flies.

  MORAL.

  Child, if you have a rummy kind of name,
  Remember to be thankful for the same.

H was a

          Horseman who rode to the meet,
    And talked of the Pads of the fox as his "feet"--
    An error which furnished subscribers with grounds
    For refusing to make him a Master of Hounds.
    He gave way thereupon to so fearful a rage,
    That he sold up his Stable and went on the Stage,
    And had all the success that a man could desire
    In creating the Part of

                           "The Old English Squire."

  MORAL.

  In the Learned Professions, a person should know
  The advantage of having two strings to his bow.

I
    the Poor Indian, justly called "The Poor,"

    He has to eat his Dinner off the floor.

  MORAL.

  The Moral these delightful lines afford
  Is: "Living cheaply is its own reward."

J

    stands for James, who thought it immaterial
    To pay his taxes, Local or Imperial.
    In vain the Mother wept, the Wife implored,
    James only yawned as though a trifle bored.

    The Tax Collector called again, but he
    Was met with Persiflage and Repartee.
    When James was hauled before the learned Judge,
    Who lectured him, he loudly whispered, "Fudge!"
    The Judge was startled from his usual calm,
    He

        struck the desk before him with his palm,
    And roared in tones to make the boldest quail,
    "_J stands for James_, IT ALSO STANDS FOR JAIL."
    And therefore, on a dark and dreadful day,
    Policemen came and took him all away.

  MORAL.

  The fate of James is typical, and shows
      How little mercy people can expect
  Who will not pay their taxes; (saving those
      To which they conscientiously object.)

K

    for the Klondyke, a Country of Gold,
    Where the winters are often excessively cold;
    Where the lawn every morning is covered with rime,
    And skating continues for years at a time.
    Do you think that a Climate can conquer the grit
    Of the Sons of the West? Not a bit! Not a bit!
    When the weather looks nippy, the bold Pioneers
    Put on two pairs of Stockings and cover their ears,
    And roam through the drear Hyperborean dales
    With a vast apparatus of Buckets and Pails;

    Or wander through wild Hyperborean glades
    With Hoes, Hammers, Pickaxes, Matlocks and Spades.
    There are some who give rise to exuberant mirth
    By turning up nothing but bushels of earth,
    While those who have little cause excellent fun
    By attempting to pilfer from those who have none.
    At times the reward they will get for their pains
    Is to strike very tempting auriferous veins;
    Or, a shaft being sunk for some miles in the ground,
    Not infrequently nuggets of value are found.
    They bring us the gold when their labours are ended,
    And we--after thanking them prettily--spend it.

  MORAL.

  Just you work for Humanity, never you mind
  If Humanity seems to have left you behind.

L

    was a Lady, Advancing in Age,
        Who drove in her carriage and six,
    With a Couple of Footmen a Coachman and Page,
        Who were all of them regular bricks.

    If the Coach ran away, or was smashed by a Dray,
        Or got into collisions and blocks,
    The Page, with a courtesy rare for his years,
    Would leap to the ground with inspiriting cheers,
    While the Footman allayed her legitimate fears,
        And the Coachman sat tight on his box.
    At night as they met round an excellent meal,
        They would take it in turn to observe:
    "What a Lady indeed! . . . what a presence to Feel! . . ."
        "What a Woman to worship and serve! . . ."

    But, perhaps, the most poignant of all their delights
        Was to stand in a rapturous Dream
    When she spoke to them kindly on Saturday Nights,
        And said "They deserved her Esteem."

  MORAL.

  Now observe the Reward of these dutiful lives:
      At the end of their Loyal Career
  They each had a Lodge at the end of the drives,
      And she left them a Hundred a Year.
  Remember from this to be properly vexed
      When the newspaper editors say,
  That "The type of society shown in the Text
      "Is rapidly passing away."

M

    was a Millionaire who sat at Table,
        And ate like this--

                            as long as he was able;
    At half-past twelve the waiters turned him out:
        He lived impoverished and died of gout.

  MORAL.

  Disgusting exhibition! Have a care
  When, later on, you are a Millionaire,
  To rise from table feeling you could still
  Take something more, and not be really ill.

N

    stands for Ned, Maria's younger brother,

    Who, walking one way, chose to gaze the other.
    In Blandford Square--a crowded part of town--
    Two People on a tandem knocked him down;
    Whereat

            a Motor Car, with warning shout,
    Ran right on top and turned him inside out:
    The damages that he obtained from these
    Maintained him all his life in cultured ease.

  MORAL.

  The law protects you. Go your gentle way:
  The Other Man has always got to Pay.

O

    stands for Oxford. Hail! salubrious seat
    Of learning! Academical Retreat!
    Home of my Middle Age! Malarial Spot
    Which People call Medeeval (though it's not).
    The marshes in the neighbourhood can vie
    With Cambridge, but the town itself is dry,
    And serves to make a kind of Fold or Pen

    Wherein to herd a lot of Learned Men.
    Were I to write but half of what they know,
    It would exhaust the space reserved for "O";
    And, as my book must not be over big,
    I turn at once to "P," which stands for Pig.

  MORAL.

  Be taught by this to speak with moderation
  Of places where, with decent application,
  One gets a good, sound, middle-class education.

P

    stands for Pig, as I remarked before,
    A second cousin to the Huge Wild Boar.
    But Pigs are civilized, while Huge Wild Boars

    Live savagely, at random, out of doors,
    And, in their coarse contempt for dainty foods,
    Subsist on Truffles, which they find in woods.
    Not so the cultivated Pig, who feels
    The need of several courses at his meals,
    But wrongly thinks it does not matter whether
    He takes them one by one

                              or all together.
    Hence, Pigs devour, from lack of self-respect,
    What Epicures would certainly reject.

  MORAL.

  Learn from the Pig to take whatever Fate
  Or Elder Persons heap upon your plate.

Q

    for Quinine, which children take

    With Jam and little bits of cake.

  MORAL.

  How idiotic! Can Quinine
  Replace Cold Baths and Sound Hygiene?

R

        the Reviewer,

                          reviewing my book,
    At which he had barely intended to look;
    But the very first lines upon "A" were enough
    To convince him the _Verses_ were excellent stuff.
    So he wrote, without stopping, for several days
    In terms of extreme, but well-merited Praise.
    To quote but one Passage: "No Person" (says he),
    "Will be really content without purchasing three,
    "While a Parent will send for a dozen or more,
    "And strew them about on the Nursery Floor.
    "The Versification might call for some strictures
    "Were it not for its singular wit; while the Pictures,
    "Tho' the handling of line is a little defective,
    "Make up amply in _verve_ what they lack in perspective."

  MORAL.

  The habit of constantly telling the Truth
  Will lend an additional lustre to Youth.

S

    stands for Snail, who, though he be the least,
    Is not an uninstructive Horned Beast.

    His eyes are on his Horns, and when you shout
    Or tickle them, the Horns go in and out.
    Had Providence seen proper to endow
    The furious Unicorn or sober Cow
    With such a gift the one would never now
    Appear so commonplace on Coats of Arms.
    And what a fortune for our failing farms
    If circus managers, with wealth untold,
    Would take the Cows for half their weight in gold!

  MORAL.

  Learn from the Snail to take reproof with patience,
  And not put out your Horns on all occasions.

T

    for the Genial Tourist, who resides
    In Peckham, where he writes Italian Guides.

  MORAL.

  Learn from this information not to cavil
  At slight mistakes in books on foreign travel.

U

         for the Upas Tree,

                          that casts a blight
    On those that pull their sisters' hair, and fight.

    But oh! the Good! They wander undismayed,
    And (as the Subtle Artist has portrayed)

  MORAL.

  Dear Reader, if you chance to catch a sight
  Of Upas Trees, betake yourself to flight.

    A friend of mine, a Botanist, believes
    That Good can even browse upon its leaves.
    I doubt it....

V for

        the unobtrusive Volunteer,
    Who fills the Armies of the World with fear.

  MORAL.

  Seek with the Volunteer to put aside
  The empty Pomp of Military Pride.

W

    My little victim, let me trouble you
    To fix your active mind on W.

    The WATERBEETLE here shall teach
    A sermon far beyond your reach:
    He flabbergasts the Human Race
    By gliding on the water's face
    With ease, celerity, and grace;
    _But if he ever stopped to think
    Of how he did it, he would sink._

  MORAL.

  Don't ask Questions!

X

    No reasonable little Child expects
    A Grown-up Man to make a rhyme on X.

  MORAL.

  These verses teach a clever child to find
  Excuse for doing all that he's inclined.

Y

    stands for Youth (it would have stood for Yak,
    But that I wrote about him two years back).
    Youth is the pleasant springtime of our days,
    As Dante so mellifluously says
    (Who always speaks of Youth with proper praise).
    You have not got to Youth, but when you do
    You'll find what He and I have said is true.

  MORAL.

  Youth's excellence should teach the Modern Wit
  First to be Young, and then to boast of it.

Z

    Is held divine by scrupulous Hindoos.

    Von Kettner writes it "_Ze_bu"; Wurst "Ze_bu_":
    I split the difference and use the two.

  MORAL.

  Idolatry, as you are well aware,
  Is highly reprehensible. But there,
  We needn't bother,--when we get to Z
  Our interest in the Alphabet is dead.

  ILLUSTRATED HUMOROUS BOOKS

  _Published by Mr. EDWARD ARNOLD._

REALLY AND TRULY!

OR, THE CENTURY FOR BABES.

  Written by ERNEST AMES, and Illustrated by MRS. ERNEST AMES,
  Authors of "An A B C for Baby Patriots."
  Fully and brilliantly coloured.
  Price 3s. 6d.

RUTHLESS RHYMES FOR HEARTLESS HOMES.

  The Verses by COLONEL D. STREAMER;
  the Pictures by G---- H----.
  Crown 4to. 3s. 6d.

TAILS WITH A TWIST.

  An Animal Picture-Book by E. T. REED, Author of "Pre-Historic
      Peeps," &c.
  With Verses by "A BELGIAN HARE."
  Oblong demy 4to. 3s. 6d.

THE FRANK LOCKWOOD SKETCH-BOOK.

  Being a Selection of Sketches by the late SIR
    FRANK LOCKWOOD, Q.C., M.P.
  Third Edition. Oblong royal 4to. 10s. 6d.

MORE BEASTS (FOR WORSE CHILDREN).

  Verses by H. B. Pictures by B. B.
  Demy 4to. 3s. 6d.

THE MODERN TRAVELLER.

  By H. B. and B. B.
  Fcap. 4to. 3s. 6d.

A MORAL ALPHABET.

  By H. B. and B. B.
  Fcap. 4to. 3s. 6d.

EDWARD ARNOLD, 37, BEDFORD STREET, LONDON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's note:

Page 41, "o" changed to "to" (I to write)POEMS TEACHERS ASK FOR

BOOK TWO

Selected by
Readers of "Normal Instructor-Primary Plans"
Containing More Than Two Hundred Poems Requested for Publication in That
Magazine on the Page "Poems Our Readers Have Asked For"

INDEX OF TITLES

"Brides of Enderby, The."

    (An Index of First Lines is given on pages 209-213)

PREFACE

In homely phrase, this is a sort of "second helping" of a dish that has
pleased the taste of thousands. Our first collection of _Poems Teachers
Ask For_ was the response to a demand for such a book, and this present
volume is the response to a demand for "more." In Book One it was
impracticable to use all of the many poems entitled to inclusion on the
basis of their being desired. We are constantly in receipt of requests
that certain selections be printed in NORMAL INSTRUCTOR-PRIMARY PLANS on
the page "Poems Our Readers Have Asked For." More than two hundred of
these were chosen for Book One, and more than two hundred others, as
much desired as those in the earlier volume, are included in Book Two.

Because of copyright restrictions, we often have been unable to present,
in magazine form, verse of large popular appeal. By special arrangement,
a number of such poems were included in Book One of _Poems Teachers Ask
For_, and many more are given in the pages that follow. Acknowledgment
is made below to publishers and authors for courteous permission to
reprint in this volume material which they control:

THE CENTURY COMPANY--_The Minuet_, from "Poems and Verses," by Mary
Mapes Dodge.

W.B. CONKEY COMPANY--_Solitude_, from "Poems of Passion," and _How
Salvator Won_, from "Kingdom of Love," both by Ella Wheeler Wilcox.

DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY, INC.--_Encouragement_, by Paul Laurence Dunbar,
copyright by Dodd, Mead & Company; _Work_, by Angela Morgan, from "The
Hour Has Struck," copyright 1914 by Angela Morgan.

DODGE PUBLISHING COMPANY--_How Did You Die?_ from "Impertinent Poems,"
and _The Sin of the Coppenter Man_, from "I Rule the House," both by
Edmund Vance Cooke.

GEORGE H. DORAN COMPANY--_The House with Nobody in It_, from "Trees and
Other Poems," by Joyce Kilmer, copyright 1914 by George H. Doran
Company, publishers.

HAMLIN GARLAND--_My Prairies and Color in the Wheat_.

ISABEL AMBLER GILMAN--_The Sunset City_.

HARPER & BROTHERS--_Over the Hill from the Poor-House_ and _The
School-Master's Guests_, from "Farm Legends," by Will Carleton.

HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY--_The Sandman_, by Margaret Vandegrift; _The
Sin of Omission_ and _Our Own_, by Margaret E. Sangster; _The Ballad of
the Tempest_, by James T. Fields; also the poems by Henry W. Longfellow,
John G. Whittier, James Russell Lowell, Alice Cary, Phoebe Cary, Oliver
Wendell Holmes, and J.T. Trowbridge, of whose works they are the
authorized publishers.

CHARLES H.L. JOHNSTON--_The President_.

RUDYARD KIPLING and DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY (A.P. WATT & SON, London,
England)--_Mother o' Mine_.

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD COMPANY--_Hullo_ and _The Volunteer Organist_,
both from "Back Country Poems," by Sam Walter Foss, and _He Worried
About It_, from "Whiffs from Wild Meadows," by Sam Walter Foss.

EDWIN MARKHAM--_Lincoln, the Man of the People_.

REILLY & LEE CO.--_Home_, from "A Heap o' Livin'," by Edgar A. Guest.

FLEMING H. REVELL COMPANY--_Our Flag_, by Margaret E. Sangster.

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS--_I Have a Rendezvous with Death_, by Alan
Seeger; _Song of the Chattahoochee_, by Sidney Lanier; _If All the
Skies_, by Henry van Dyke.

HARR WAGNER PUBLISHING COMPANY--_Mothers of Men_ and _The Fortunate
Isles_, by Joaquin Miller.

THE PUBLISHERS.

POEMS TEACHERS ASK FOR

BOOK TWO

 *       *       *       *       *

Home

It takes a heap o' livin' in a house t' make it home,
A heap o' sun an' shadder, an' ye sometimes have t' roam
Afore ye really 'preciate the things ye left behind,
An' hunger fer 'em somehow, with 'em allus on yer mind.
It don't make any differunce how rich ye get t' be,
How much yer chairs an' tables cost, how great yer luxury;
It ain't home t' ye, though it be the palace of a king,
Until somehow yer soul is sort o' wrapped 'round everything.

Home ain't a place that gold can buy or get up in a minute;
Afore it's home there's got t' be a heap o' livin' in it:
Within the walls there's got t' be some babies born, and then
Right there ye've got t' bring 'em up t' women good, an' men;
And gradjerly, as time goes on ye find ye wouldn't part
With anything they ever used--they've grown into yer heart;
The old high chairs, the playthings, too, the little shoes they wore
Ye hoard; an' if ye could ye'd keep the thumbmarks on the door.

Ye've got t' weep t' make it home, ye've got t' sit and sigh
An' watch beside a loved one's bed, an' know that Death is nigh;
An' in the stillness o' the night t' see Death's angel come,
An' close the eyes o' her that smiled, an' leave her sweet voice dumb.
Fer these are scenes that grip the heart, an' when yer tears are dried,
Ye find the home is dearer than it was, an' sanctified;
An' tuggin' at ye always are the pleasant memories
O' her that was an' is no more--ye can't escape from these.

Ye've got t' sing and dance fer years, ye've got t' romp an' play,
An' learn t' love the things ye have by usin' 'em each day;
Even the roses 'round the porch must blossom year by year
Afore they 'come a part o' ye, suggestin' someone dear
Who used t' love 'em long ago, an' trained 'em jes' t' run
The way they do, so's they would get the early mornin' sun;
Ye've got t' love each brick an' stone from cellar up t' dome:
It takes a heap o' livin' in a house f' make it home.

    _Edgar A. Guest._

The House with Nobody In It

Whenever I walk to Suffern along the Erie track
I go by a poor old farm-house with its shingles broken and black;
I suppose I've passed it a hundred times, but I always stop for a minute
And look at the house, the tragic house, the house with nobody in it.

I've never seen a haunted house, but I hear there are such things;
That they hold the talk of spirits, their mirth and sorrowings.
I know that house isn't haunted and I wish it were, I do,
For it wouldn't be so lonely if it had a ghost or two.

This house on the road to Suffern needs a dozen panes of glass,
And somebody ought to weed the walk and take a scythe to the grass.
It needs new paint and shingles and vines should be trimmed and tied,
But what it needs most of all is some people living inside.

If I had a bit of money and all my debts were paid,
I'd put a gang of men to work with brush and saw and spade.
I'd buy that place and fix it up the way that it used to be,
And I'd find some people who wanted a home and give it to them free.

Now a new home standing empty with staring window and door
Looks idle perhaps and foolish, like a hat on its block in the store,
But there's nothing mournful about it, it cannot be sad and lone
For the lack of something within it that it has never known.

But a house that has done what a house should do, a house that has
      sheltered life,
That has put its loving wooden arms around a man and his wife,
A house that has echoed a baby's laugh and helped up his stumbling feet,
Is the saddest sight, when it's left alone, that ever your eyes could meet.

So whenever I go to Suffern along the Erie track
I never go by the empty house without stopping and looking back,
Yet it hurts me to look at the crumbling roof and the shutters fallen
      apart,
For I can't help thinking the poor old house is a house with a broken
      heart.

    _Joyce Kilmer._

Color in the Wheat

Like liquid gold the wheat field lies,
  A marvel of yellow and russet and green,
That ripples and runs, that floats and flies,
  With the subtle shadows, the change, the sheen,
    That play in the golden hair of a girl,--
      A ripple of amber--a flare
    Of light sweeping after--a curl
    In the hollows like swirling feet
      Of fairy waltzers, the colors run
      To the western sun
    Through the deeps of the ripening wheat.

Broad as the fleckless, soaring sky,
  Mysterious, fair as the moon-led sea,
The vast plain flames on the dazzled eye
  Under the fierce sun's alchemy.
    The slow hawk stoops
      To his prey in the deeps;
    The sunflower droops
      To the lazy wave; the wind sleeps--
    Then swirling in dazzling links and loops,
      A riot of shadow and shine,
      A glory of olive and amber and wine,
    To the westering sun the colors run
    Through the deeps of the ripening wheat.

O glorious land! My western land,
  Outspread beneath the setting sun!
Once more amid your swells, I stand,
  And cross your sod-lands dry and dun.
I hear the jocund calls of men
  Who sweep amid the ripened grain
With swift, stern reapers; once again
  The evening splendor floods the plain,
    The crickets' chime
    Makes pauseless rhyme,
    And toward the sun,
    The colors run
    Before the wind's feet
    In the wheat!

    _Hamlin Garland._

The Broken Pinion

I walked through the woodland meadows,
  Where sweet the thrushes sing;
And I found on a bed of mosses
  A bird with a broken wing.
I healed its wound, and each morning
  It sang its old sweet strain,
But the bird with a broken pinion
  Never soared as high again.

I found a young life broken
  By sin's seductive art;
And touched with a Christlike pity,
  I took him to my heart.
He lived with a noble purpose
  And struggled not in vain;
But the life that sin had stricken
  Never soared as high again.

But the bird with a broken pinion
  Kept another from the snare;
And the life that sin had stricken
  Raised another from despair.
Each loss has its compensation,
  There is healing for every pain;
But the bird with a broken pinion
  Never soars as high again.

    _Hezekiah Butterworth._

Jamie Douglas

It was in the days when Claverhouse
  Was scouring moor and glen,
To change, with fire and bloody sword,
  The faith of Scottish men.

They had made a covenant with the Lord
  Firm in their faith to bide,
Nor break to Him their plighted word,
  Whatever might betide.

The sun was well-nigh setting,
  When o'er the heather wild,
And up the narrow mountain-path,
  Alone there walked a child.

He was a bonny, blithesome lad,
  Sturdy and strong of limb--
A father's pride, a mother's love,
  Were fast bound up in him.

His bright blue eyes glanced fearless round,
  His step was firm and light;
What was it underneath his plaid
  His little hands grasped tight?

It was bannocks which, that very morn,
  His mother made with care.
From out her scanty store of meal;
  And now, with many a prayer,

Had sent by Jamie her ane boy,
  A trusty lad and brave,
To good old Pastor Tammons Roy,
  Now hid in yonder cave,

And for whom the bloody Claverhouse
  Had hunted long in vain,
And swore they would not leave that glen
  Till old Tam Roy was slain.

So Jamie Douglas went his way
  With heart that knew no fear;
He turned the great curve in the rock,
  Nor dreamed that death was near.

And there were bloody Claverhouse men,
  Who laughed aloud with glee,
When trembling now within their power,
  The frightened child they see.

He turns to flee, but all in vain,
  They drag him back apace
To where their cruel leader stands,
  And set them face to face.

The cakes concealed beneath his plaid
  Soon tell the story plain--
"It is old Tam Roy the cakes are for,"
  Exclaimed the angry man.

"Now guide me to his hiding place
  And I will let you go."
But Jamie shook his yellow curls,
  And stoutly answered--"No!"

"I'll drop you down the mountain-side,
  And there upon the stones
The old gaunt wolf and carrion crow
  Shall battle for your bones."

And in his brawny, strong right hand
  He lifted up the child,
And held him where the clefted rocks
  Formed a chasm deep and wild

So deep it was, the trees below
  Like stunted bushes seemed.
Poor Jamie looked in frightened maze,
  It seemed some horrid dream.

He looked up at the blue sky above
  Then at the men near by;
Had _they_ no little boys at home,
  That they could let him die?

But no one spoke and no one stirred,
  Or lifted hand to save
From such a fearful, frightful death,
  The little lad so brave.

"It is woeful deep," he shuddering cried,
  "But oh! I canna tell,
So drop me down then, if you will--
  It is nae so deep as hell!"

A childish scream, a faint, dull sound,
  Oh! Jamie Douglas true,
Long, long within that lonely cave
  Shall Tam Roy wait for you.

Long for your welcome coming
  Waits the mother on the moor,
And watches and calls, "Come, Jamie, lad,"
  Through the half-open door.

No more adown the rocky path
  You come with fearless tread,
Or, on moor or mountain, take
  The good man's daily bread.

But up in heaven the shining ones
  A wondrous story tell,
Of a child snatched up from a rocky gulf
  That is nae so deep as hell.

And there before the great white throne,
  Forever blessed and glad,
His mother dear and old Tam Roy
  Shall meet their bonny lad.

The Ensign Bearer

Never mind me, Uncle Jared, never mind my bleeding breast!
They are charging in the valley and you're needed with the rest.
All the day long from its dawning till you saw your kinsman fall,
You have answered fresh and fearless to our brave commander's call;
And I would not rob my country of your gallant aid to-night,
Though your presence and your pity stay my spirit in its flight.

All along that quivering column see the death steed trampling down
Men whose deeds this day are worthy of a kingdom and a crown.
Prithee hasten, Uncle Jared, what's the bullet in my breast
To that murderous storm of fire raining tortures on the rest?
See! the bayonets flash and falter--look! the foe begins to win;
See! oh, see our falling comrades! God! the ranks are closing in.

Hark! there's quickening in the distance and a thundering in the air,
Like the roaring of a lion just emerging from his lair.
There's a cloud of something yonder fast unrolling like a scroll--
Quick! oh, quick! if it be succor that can save the cause a soul!
Look! a thousand thirsty bayonets are flashing down the vale,
And a thousand thirsty riders dashing onward like a gale!

Raise me higher, Uncle Jared, place the ensign in my hand!
I am strong enough to float it while you cheer that flying band;
Louder! louder! shout for Freedom with prolonged and vigorous breath--
Shout for Liberty and Union, and the victory over death!--
See! they catch the stirring numbers and they swell them to the breeze--
Cap and plume and starry banner waving proudly through the trees.

Mark our fainting comrades rally, see that drooping column rise!
I can almost see the fire newly kindled in their eyes.
Fresh for conflict, nerved to conquer, see them charging on the foe--
Face to face with deadly meaning--shot and shell and trusty blow.
See the thinned ranks wildly breaking--see them scatter to the sun--
I can die, Uncle Jared, for the glorious day is won!

But there's something, something pressing with a numbness on my heart,
And my lips with mortal dumbness fail the burden to impart.
Oh I tell you, Uncle Jared, there is something back of all
That a soldier cannot part with when he heeds his country's call!
Ask the mother what, in dying, sends her yearning spirit back
Over life's rough, broken marches, where she's pointed out the track.

Ask the dear ones gathered nightly round the shining household hearth,
What to them is dearer, better, than the brightest things of earth,
Ask that dearer one whose loving, like a ceaseless vestal flame,
Sets my very soul a-glowing at the mention of her name;
Ask her why the loved in dying feels her spirit linked with his
In a union death but strengthens, she will tell you what it is.

And there's something, Uncle Jared, you may tell her if you will--
That the precious flag she gave me, I have kept unsullied still.
And--this touch of pride forgive me--where death sought our gallant host--
Where our stricken lines were weakest, there it ever waved the most.
Bear it back and tell her fondly, brighter, purer, steadier far,
'Mid the crimson tide of battle, shone my life's fast setting star.

But forbear, dear Uncle Jared, when there's something more to tell,
When her lips with rapid blanching bid you answer how I fell;
Teach your tongue the trick of slighting, though 'tis faithful to the rest,
Lest it say her brother's bullet is the bullet in my breast;
But if it must be that she learn it despite your tenderest care,
'Twill soothe her bleeding heart to know my bayonet pricked the air.

Life is ebbing, Uncle Jared, my enlistment endeth here;
Death, the Conqueror, has drafted--I can no more volunteer,--
But I hear the roll call yonder and I go with willing feet--
Through the shadows of the valley where victorious armies meet,
Raise the ensign, Uncle Jared, let its dear folds o'er me fall--
Strength and Union for my country--and God's banner over all.

The Real Riches

Every coin of earthly treasure
  We have lavished upon earth
For our simple worldly pleasure
  May be reckoned something worth;
For the spending was not losing,
  Tho' the purchase were but small;
It has perished with the using.
  We have had it,--that is all!

All the gold we leave behind us,
  When we turn to dust again,
Tho' our avarice may blind us,
  We have gathered quite in vain;
Since we neither can direct it,
  By the winds of fortune tost,
Nor in other worlds expect it;
  What we hoarded we have lost.

But each merciful oblation--
  Seed of pity wisely sown,
What we gave in self-negation,
  We may safely call our own;
For the treasure freely given
  Is the treasure that we hoard,
Since the angels keep in heaven,
  What is lent unto the Lord.

    _John G. Saxe._

The Polish Boy

Whence come those shrieks so wild and shrill,
  That cut, like blades of steel, the air,
Causing the creeping blood to chill
  With the sharp cadence of despair?

Again they come, as if a heart
  Were cleft in twain by one quick blow,
And every string had voice apart
  To utter its peculiar woe.

Whence came they? From yon temple, where
An altar, raised for private prayer,
Now forms the warrior's marble bed
Who Warsaw's gallant armies led.

The dim funereal tapers throw
A holy luster o'er his brow,
And burnish with their rays of light
The mass of curls that gather bright
Above the haughty brow and eye
Of a young boy that's kneeling by.

What hand is that, whose icy press
  Clings to the dead with death's own grasp,
But meets no answering caress?
  No thrilling fingers seek its clasp.
It is the hand of her whose cry
  Rang wildly, late, upon the air,
When the dead warrior met her eye
  Outstretched upon the altar there.

With pallid lip and stony brow
She murmurs forth her anguish now.
But hark! the tramp of heavy feet
Is heard along the bloody street;
Nearer and nearer yet they come,
With clanking arms and noiseless drum.
Now whispered curses, low and deep,
Around the holy temple creep;
The gate is burst; a ruffian band
Rush in, and savagely demand,
With brutal voice and oath profane,
The startled boy for exile's chain.

The mother sprang with gesture wild,
And to her bosom clasped her child;
Then, with pale cheek and flashing eye,
Shouted with fearful energy,
"Back, ruffians, back! nor dare to tread
Too near the body of my dead;
Nor touch the living boy; I stand
Between him and your lawless band.
Take _me_, and bind these arms--these hands,--
With Russia's heaviest iron bands,
And drag me to Siberia's wild
To perish, if 'twill save my child!"

"Peace, woman, peace!" the leader cried,
Tearing the pale boy from her side,
And in his ruffian grasp he bore
His victim to the temple door.
"One moment!" shrieked the mother; "one!
Will land or gold redeem my son?
Take heritage, take name, take all,
But leave him free from Russian thrall!
Take these!" and her white arms and hands
She stripped of rings and diamond bands,
And tore from braids of long black hair
The gems that gleamed like starlight there;
Her cross of blazing rubies, last,
Down at the Russian's feet she cast.
He stooped to seize the glittering store;--
Up springing from the marble floor,
The mother, with a cry of joy,
Snatched to her leaping heart the boy.
But no! the Russian's iron grasp
Again undid the mother's clasp.
Forward she fell, with one long cry
Of more than mortal agony.

But the brave child is roused at length,
  And, breaking from the Russian's hold,
He stands, a giant in the strength
  Of his young spirit, fierce and bold.
Proudly he towers; his flashing eye,
  So blue, and yet so bright,
Seems kindled from the eternal sky,
  So brilliant is its light.

His curling lips and crimson cheeks
Foretell the thought before he speaks;
With a full voice of proud command
He turned upon the wondering band.

"Ye hold me not! no! no, nor can;
This hour has made the boy a man.
I knelt before my slaughtered sire,
Nor felt one throb of vengeful ire.
I wept upon his marble brow,
Yes, wept! I was a child; but now
My noble mother, on her knee,
Hath done the work of years for me!"

He drew aside his broidered vest,
And there, like slumbering serpent's crest,
The jeweled haft of poniard bright
Glittered a moment on the sight.
"Ha! start ye back? Fool! coward! knave!
Think ye my noble father's glaive
Would drink the life-blood of a slave?
The pearls that on the handle flame
Would blush to rubies in their shame;
The blade would quiver in thy breast
Ashamed of such ignoble rest.
No! thus I rend the tyrant's chain,
And fling him back a boy's disdain!"

A moment, and the funeral light
Flashed on the jeweled weapon bright;
Another, and his young heart's blood
Leaped to the floor, a crimson flood.
Quick to his mother's side he sprang,
And on the air his clear voice rang:
"Up, mother, up! I'm free! I'm free!
The choice was death or slavery.
Up, mother, up! Look on thy son!
His freedom is forever won;
And now he waits one holy kiss
To bear his father home in bliss;
One last embrace, one blessing,--one!
To prove thou knowest, approvest thy son.
What! silent yet? Canst thou not feel
My warm blood o'er thy heart congeal?
Speak, mother, speak! lift up thy head!
What! silent still? Then art thou dead:
--Great God, I thank thee! Mother, I
Rejoice with thee,--and thus--to die."
One long, deep breath, and his pale head
Lay on his mother's bosom,--dead.

    _Ann S. Stephens._

The Height of the Ridiculous

I wrote some lines once on a time
  In wondrous merry mood,
And thought, as usual, men would say
  They were exceeding good.

They were so queer, so very queer,
  I laughed as I would die;
Albeit, in the general way,
  A sober man am I.

I called my servant, and he came;
  How kind it was of him
To mind a slender man like me,
  He of the mighty limb!

"These to the printer," I exclaimed,
  And, in my humorous way,
I added (as a trifling jest),
  "There'll be the devil to pay."

He took the paper, and I watched,
  And saw him peep within;
At the first line he read, his face
  Was all upon the grin.

He read the next; the grin grew broad,
  And shot from ear to ear;
He read the third; a chuckling noise
  I now began to hear.

The fourth; he broke into a roar;
  The fifth; his waistband split;
The sixth; he burst five buttons off,
  And tumbled in a fit.

Ten days and nights, with sleepless eye,
  I watched that wretched man,
And since, I never dare to write
  As funny as I can.

    _Oliver Wendell Holmes._

Excelsior

The shades of night were falling fast,
As through an Alpine village passed
A youth, who bore, 'mid snow and ice,
A banner with the strange device,
      Excelsior!

His brow was sad his eye beneath
Flashed like a falchion from its sheath,
And like a silver clarion rung
The accents of that unknown tongue,
      Excelsior!

In happy homes he saw the light
Of household fires gleam warm and bright;
Above, the spectral glaciers shone,
And from his lips escaped a groan,
      Excelsior!

"Try not the Pass!" the old man said;
"Dark lowers the tempest overhead,
The roaring torrent is deep and wide!"
And loud the clarion voice replied,
      Excelsior!

"O stay," the maiden said, "and rest
Thy weary head upon this breast!"
A tear stood in his bright blue eye,
But still he answered, with a sigh,
      Excelsior!

"Beware the pine-tree's withered branch!
Beware the awful avalanche!"
This was the peasant's last Good-night,
A voice replied, far up the height,
      Excelsior!

At break of day, as heavenward
The pious monks of Saint Bernard
Uttered the oft-repeated prayer,
A voice cried through the startled air,
      Excelsior!

A traveller, by the faithful hound,
Half-buried in the snow was found,
Still grasping in his hand of ice
That banner with the strange device,
      Excelsior!

There in the twilight cold and gray,
Lifeless, but beautiful, he lay,
And from the sky, serene and far,
A voice fell, like a falling star,
      Excelsior!

    _Henry W. Longfellow._

The Bivouac of the Dead

The muffled drum's sad roll has beat
  The soldier's last tattoo;
No more on life's parade shall meet
  That brave and fallen few.
On fame's eternal camping ground
  Their silent tents are spread,
And Glory guards with solemn round
  The bivouac of the dead.

No rumor of the foe's advance
  Now swells upon the wind;
No troubled thought at midnight haunts
  Of loved ones left behind;
No vision of the morrow's strife
  The warrior's dream alarms;
No braying horn or screaming fife
  At dawn shall call to arms.

Their shivered swords are red with rust;
  Their plumed heads are bowed;
Their haughty banner, trailed in dust,
  Is now their martial shroud;
And plenteous funeral tears have washed
  The red stains from each brow;
And the proud forms, by battle gashed,
  Are free from anguish now.

The neighing troop, the flashing blade,
  The bugle's stirring blast,
The charge, the dreadful cannonade,
  The din and shout are passed.
Nor war's wild note, nor glory's peal,
  Shall thrill with fierce delight
Those breasts that nevermore shall feel
  The rapture of the fight.

Like a fierce northern hurricane
  That sweeps his great plateau,
Flushed with the triumph yet to gain,
  Came down the serried foe,
Who heard the thunder of the fray
  Break o'er the field beneath,
Knew well the watchword of that day
  Was "Victory or Death!"

Full many a mother's breath hath swept
  O'er Angostura's plain,
And long the pitying sky hath wept
  Above its moulder'd slain.
The raven's scream, or eagle's flight,
  Or shepherd's pensive lay,
Alone now wake each solemn height
  That frowned o'er that dread fray.

Sons of the "dark and bloody ground,"
  Ye must not slumber there,
Where stranger steps and tongues resound
  Along the heedless air!
Your own proud land's heroic soil
  Shall be your fitter grave;
She claims from war its richest spoil,--
  The ashes of her brave.

Thus 'neath their parent turf they rest,
  Far from the gory field,
Borne to a Spartan mother's breast
  On many a bloody shield.
The sunshine of their native sky
  Smiles sadly on them here,
And kindred eyes and hearts watch by
  The heroes' sepulcher.

Rest on, embalmed and sainted dead!
  Dear as the blood ye gave;
No impious footsteps here shall tread
  The herbage of your grave;
Nor shall your glory be forgot
  While fame her record keeps,
Or honor points the hallowed spot
  Where Valor proudly sleeps.

Yon marble minstrel's voiceless stone
  In deathless song shall tell,
When many a vanished year hath flown,
  The story how ye fell.
Nor wreck, nor change, nor winter's blight,
  Nor time's remorseless doom,
Can dim one ray of holy light
  That gilds your glorious tomb.

    _Theodore O'Hara._

Children

Come to me, O ye children!
  For I hear you at your play,
And the questions that perplexed me
  Have vanished quite away.

Ye open the eastern windows,
  That look towards the sun,
Where thoughts are singing swallows
  And the brooks of morning run.

In your hearts are the birds and the sunshine,
  In your thoughts the brooklet's flow
But in mine is the wind of Autumn
  And the first fall of the snow.

Ah! what would the world be to us
  If the children were no more?
We should dread the desert behind us
  Worse than the dark before.

What the leaves are to the forest,
  With light and air for food,
Ere their sweet and tender juices
  Have been hardened into wood,--

That to the world are children;
  Through them it feels the glow
Of a brighter and sunnier climate
  Than reaches the trunks below.

Come to me, O ye children!
  And whisper in my ear
What the birds and the winds are singing
  In your sunny atmosphere.

For what are all our contrivings,
  And the wisdom of our books,
When compared with your caresses,
  And the gladness of your looks?

Ye are better than all the ballads
  That ever were sung or said;
For ye are living poems,
  And all the rest are dead.

    _Henry W. Longfellow._

The Eve of Waterloo

(The battle of Waterloo occurred June 18, 1815)

There was a sound of revelry by night,
  And Belgium's capital had gathered then
Her beauty and her chivalry, and bright
  The lamps shone o'er fair women and brave men.
  A thousand hearts beat happily; and when
Music arose with its voluptuous swell,
  Soft eyes looked love to eyes which spake again,
And all went merry as a marriage bell;
But hush! hark! a deep sound strikes like a rising knell.

Did ye not hear it?--No; 'twas but the wind,
  Or the car rattling o'er the stony street:
On with the dance! let joy be unconfined;
  No sleep till morn, when youth and pleasure meet
  To chase the glowing hours with flying feet--
But, hark!--that heavy sound breaks in once more,
  As if the clouds its echo would repeat
And nearer, clearer, deadlier than before!
Arm! arm! it is--it is the cannon's opening roar.

Ah! then and there was hurrying to and fro,
  And gathering tears, and tremblings of distress,
And cheeks all pale, which but an hour ago
  Blush'd at the praise of their own loveliness;
  And there were sudden partings, such as press
The life from out young hearts, and choking sighs
  Which ne'er might be repeated: who could guess
If ever more should meet those mutual eyes,
Since upon night so sweet such awful morn could rise!

And there was mounting in hot haste: the steed,
  The mustering squadron, and the clattering car
Went pouring forward with impetuous speed,
  And swiftly forming in the ranks of war;
  And the deep thunder, peal on peal afar;
And near, the beat of the alarming drum
  Roused up the soldier ere the morning star;
While thronged the citizens with terror dumb,
Or whispering with white lips, "The foe! they come! they come!"

Last noon beheld them full of lusty life,
  Last eve in Beauty's circle proudly gay,
The midnight brought the signal sound of strife,
  The morn the marshaling in arms,--the day
  Battle's magnificently stern array!
The thunder clouds close o'er it, which when rent
  The earth is covered thick with other clay,
Which her own clay shall cover, heaped and pent,
Rider and horse--friend, foe--in one red burial blent.

    _Lord Byron._

The Land Where Hate Should Die

This is the land where hate should die--
  No feuds of faith, no spleen of race,
No darkly brooding fear should try
  Beneath our flag to find a place.
Lo! every people here has sent
  Its sons to answer freedom's call,
Their lifeblood is the strong cement
  That builds and binds the nation's wall.

This is the land where hate should die--
  Though dear to me my faith and shrine,
I serve my country when I
  Respect the creeds that are not mine.
He little loves his land who'd cast
  Upon his neighbor's word a doubt,
Or cite the wrongs of ages past
  From present rights to bar him out.

This is the land where hate should die--
  This is the land where strife should cease,
Where foul, suspicious fear should fly
  Before the light of love and peace.
Then let us purge from poisoned thought
  That service to the state we give,
And so be worthy as we ought
  Of this great land in which we live.

    _Denis A. McCarthy._

Trouble In the "Amen Corner"

'Twas a stylish congregation, that of Theophrastus Brown,
And its organ was the finest and the biggest in the town,
And the chorus--all the papers favorably commented on it,
For 'twas said each female member had a forty-dollar bonnet.

Now in the "amen corner" of the church sat Brother Eyer,
Who persisted every Sabbath-day in singing with the choir;
He was poor but genteel-looking, and his heart as snow was white,
And his old face beamed with sweetness when he sang with all his might.

His voice was cracked and broken, age had touched his vocal chords,
And nearly every Sunday he would mispronounce the words
Of the hymns, and 'twas no wonder, he was old and nearly blind,
And the choir rattling onward always left him far behind.

The chorus stormed and blustered, Brother Eyer sang too slow,
And then he used the tunes in vogue a hundred years ago;
At last the storm-cloud burst, and the  church was told, in fine,
That the brother must stop singing, or the choir would resign.

Then the pastor called together in the vestry-room one day
Seven influential members who subscribe more than they pay,
And having asked God's guidance in a printed pray'r or two,
They put their heads together to determine what to do.

They debated, thought, suggested, till at last "dear Brother York,"
Who last winter made a million on a sudden rise in pork,
Rose and moved that a committee wait at once on Brother Eyer,
And proceed to rake him lively "for disturbin' of the choir."

Said he: "In that 'ere organ I've invested quite a pile,
And we'll sell it if we cannot worship in the latest style;
Our Philadelphy tenor tells me 'tis the hardest thing
Fer to make God understand him when the brother tries to sing.

"We've got the biggest organ, the best-dressed choir in town,
We pay the steepest sal'ry to our pastor, Brother Brown;
But if we must humor ignorance because it's blind and old--
If the choir's to be pestered, I will seek another fold."

Of course the motion carried, and one day a coach and four,
With the latest style of driver, rattled up to Eyer's door;
And the sleek, well-dress'd committee, Brothers Sharkey, York and Lamb,
As they crossed the humble portal took good care to miss the jamb.

They found the choir's great trouble sitting in his old arm chair,
And the Summer's golden sunbeams lay upon his thin white hair;
He was singing "Rock of Ages" in a cracked voice and low
But the angels understood him, 'twas all he cared to know.

Said York: "We're here, dear brother, with the vestry's approbation
To discuss a little matter that affects the congregation";
"And the choir, too," said Sharkey, giving Brother York a nudge,
"And the choir, too!" he echoed with the graveness of a judge.

"It was the understanding when we bargained for the chorus
That it was to relieve us, that is, do the singing for us;
If we rupture the agreement, it is very plain, dear brother,
It will leave our congregation and be gobbled by another.

"We don't want any singing except that what we've bought!
The latest tunes are all the rage; the old ones stand for naught;
And so we have decided--are you list'ning, Brother Eyer?--
That you'll have to stop your singin' for it flurrytates the choir."

The old man slowly raised his head, a sign that he did hear,
And on his cheek the trio caught the glitter of a tear;
His feeble hands pushed back the locks white as the silky snow,
As he answered the committee in a voice both sweet and low:

"I've sung the psalms of David nearly eighty years," said he;
"They've been my staff and comfort all along life's dreary way;
I'm sorry I disturb the choir, perhaps I'm doing wrong;
But when my heart is filled with praise, I can't keep back a song.

"I wonder if beyond the tide that's breaking at my feet,
In the far-off heav'nly temple, where the Master I shall greet--
Yes, I wonder when I try to sing the songs of God up high'r,
If the angel band will church me for disturbing heaven's choir."

A silence filled the little room; the old man bowed his head;
The carriage rattled on again, but Brother Eyer was dead!
Yes, dead! his hand had raised the veil the future hangs before us,
And the Master dear had called him to the everlasting chorus.

The choir missed him for a while, but he was soon forgot,
A few church-goers watched the door; the old man entered not.
Far away, his voice no longer cracked, he sang his heart's desires,
Where there are no church committees and no fashionable choirs!

    _T.C. Harbaugh._

Duty

The sweetest lives are those to duty wed,
Whose deeds, both great and small,
Are close knit strands of an unbroken thread,
Whose love ennobles all.
The world may sound no trumpet, ring no bells;
The book of life, the shining record tells.
Thy love shall chant its own beatitudes,
After its own life-working. A child's kiss
Set on thy singing lips shall make thee glad;
A poor man served by thee shall make thee rich;
A sick man helped by thee shall make thee strong;
Thou shalt be served thyself by every sense
Of service thou renderest.

    _Robert Browning._

The Last Leaf

I saw him once before,
As he passed by the door,
    And again
The pavement stones resound,
As he totters o'er the ground
    With his cane.

They say that in his prime,
Ere the pruning-knife of Time
    Cut him down,
Not a better man was found
By the Crier on his round
    Through the town.

But now he walks the streets,
And he looks at all he meets
    Sad and wan,
And he shakes his feeble head,
That it seems as if he said
    "They are gone."

The mossy marbles rest
On the lips that he has prest
    In their bloom,
And the names he loved to hear
Have been carved for many a year
    On the tomb.

My grandmamma has said,--
Poor old lady, she is dead
    Long ago,--
That he had a Roman nose,
And his cheek was like a rose
    In the snow.

But now his nose is thin,
And it rests upon his chin.
    Like a staff,
And a crook is in his back,
And a melancholy crack
    In his laugh.

I know it is a sin
For me to sit and grin
    At him here;
But the old three-cornered hat,
And the breeches, and all that,
    Are so queer!

And if I should live to be
The last leaf upon the tree
    In the spring,
Let them smile, as I do now,
At the old forsaken bough
    Where I cling.

    _Oliver Wendell Holmes._

Old Flag Forever

She's up there--Old Glory--where lightnings are sped;
She dazzles the nations with ripples of red;
And she'll wave for us living, or droop o'er us dead,--
The flag of our country forever!

She's up there--Old Glory--how bright the stars stream!
And the stripes like red signals of liberty gleam!
And we dare for her, living, or dream the last dream,
'Neath the flag of our country forever!

She's up there--Old Glory--no tyrant-dealt scars,
No blur on her brightness, no stain on her stars!
The brave blood of heroes hath crimsoned her bars.
She's the flag of our country forever!

    _Frank L. Stanton._

The Death of the Flowers

The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year,
Of wailing winds, and naked woods, and meadows brown and sear.
Heaped in the hollows of the grove, the withered leaves lie dead;
They rustle to the eddying gust, and to the rabbit's tread.
The robin and the wren are flown, and from the shrub the jay,
And from the wood-top calls the crow, through all the gloomy day.

Where are the flowers, the fair young flowers, that lately sprang and stood
In brighter light and softer airs, a beauteous sisterhood?
Alas! they all are in their graves; the gentle race of flowers
Are lying in their lowly beds, with the fair and good of ours.
The rain is falling where they lie; but the cold November rain
Calls not from out the gloomy earth the lovely ones again.

The wind-flower and the violet, they perished long ago,
And the brier-rose and the orchis died amid the summer glow;
But on the hill the golden-rod, and the aster in the wood,
And the yellow sun-flower by the brook, in autumn beauty stood,
Till fell the frost from the clear cold heaven, as falls the plague on men,
And the brightness of their smile was gone from upland, glade and glen.

And now, when comes the calm, mild day, as still such days will come,
To call the squirrel and the bee from out their winter home,
When the sound of dropping nuts is heard, though all the trees are still,
And twinkle in the smoky light the waters of the rill,
The south wind searches for the flowers, whose fragrance late he bore,
And sighs to find them in the wood and by the stream no more.

And then I think of one who in her youthful beauty died,
The fair, meek blossom that grew up and faded by my side,
In the cold, moist earth we laid her when the forest cast the leaf,
And we wept that one so lovely should have a life so brief;
Yet not unmeet it was that one, like that young friend of ours,
So gentle and so beautiful, should perish with the flowers.

    _W.C. Bryant._

The Heritage

The rich man's son inherits lands,
  And piles of brick, and stone, and gold,
And he inherits soft white hands,
  And tender flesh that fears the cold,
  Nor dares to wear a garment old;
A heritage, it seems to me,
One scarce would wish to hold in fee.

The rich man's son inherits cares;
  The bank may break, the factory burn,
A breath may burst his bubble shares,
  And soft white hands could hardly earn
  A living that would serve his turn;
A heritage, it seems to me,
One scarce would wish to hold in fee.

The rich man's son inherits wants,
  His stomach craves for dainty fare;
With sated heart, he hears the pants
  Of toiling hinds with brown arms bare,
  And wearies in his easy-chair;
A heritage, it seems to me,
One scarce would wish to hold in fee.

What doth the poor man's son inherit?
  Stout muscles and a sinewy heart,
A hardy frame, a hardier spirit;
  King of two hands, he does his part
  In every useful toil and art;
A heritage, it seems to me,
A king might wish to hold in fee.

What doth the poor man's son inherit?
  Wishes o'erjoyed with humble things,
A rank, adjudged by toil-won merit,
  Content that from employment springs,
  A heart that in his labor sings;
A heritage, it seems to me,
A king might wish to hold in fee.

What doth the poor man's son inherit?
  A patience learned of being poor,
Courage, if sorrow come, to bear it,
  A fellow-feeling that is sure
  To make the outcast bless his door;
A heritage, it seems to me,
A king might wish to hold in fee.

O rich man's son! there is a toil
  That with all others level stands;
Large charity doth never soil,
But only whiten, soft white hands,--
  This is the best crop from thy lands;
A heritage it seems to me,
Worth being rich to hold in fee.

O poor man's son! scorn not thy state;
  There is worse weariness than thine,
In merely being rich and great;
  Toil only gives the soul to shine
  And makes rest fragrant and benign;
A heritage, it seems to me,
Worth being poor to hold in fee.

Both heirs to some six feet of sod,
  Are equal in the earth at last;
Both, children of the same dear God,
  Prove title to your heirship vast
  By record of a well-filled past;
A heritage, it seems to me,
Well worth a life to hold in fee.

    _James Russell Lowell._

The Ballad of East and West

Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet,
Till Earth and Sky stand presently at God's great Judgment Seat;
But there is neither East nor West, Border, nor Breed, nor Birth,
When two strong men stand face to face, tho' they come from the ends
      of the earth!

Kamal is out with twenty men to raise the Border side,
And he has lifted the Colonel's mare that is the Colonel's pride:
He has lifted her out of the stable-door between the dawn and the day,
And turned the calkins upon her feet, and ridden her far away.
Then up and spoke the Colonel's son that led a troop of the Guides:
"Is there never a man of all my men can say where Kamal hides?"
Then up and spoke Mahommed Khan, the son of the Ressaldar,
"If ye know the track of the morning-mist, ye know where his pickets are.
At dust he harries the Abazai--at dawn he is into Bonair,
But he must go by Fort Bukloh to his own place to fare,
So if ye gallop to Fort Bukloh as fast as a bird can fly,
By the favor of God ye may cut him off ere he win to the Tongue of Jagai,
But if he be passed the Tongue of Jagai, right swiftly turn ye then,
For the length and the breadth of that grisly plain is sown with Kamal's
      men.
There is rock to the left, and rock to the right, and low lean thorn
      between,
And ye may hear a breech-bolt snick where never a man is seen."
The Colonel's son has taken a horse, and a raw rough dun was he,
With the mouth of a bell and the heart of Hell, and the head of the
      gallows-tree.
The Colonel's son to the Fort has won, they bid him stay to eat--
Who rides at the tail of a Border thief, he sits not long at his meat.
He's up and away from Fort Bukloh as fast as he can fly,
Till he was aware of his father's mare in the gut of the Tongue of Jagai,
Till he was aware of his father's mare with Kamal upon her back,
And when he could spy the white of her eye, he made the pistol crack.
He has fired once, he has fired twice, but the whistling ball went wide.
"Ye shoot like a soldier," Kamal said. "Show now if ye can ride."
It's up and over the Tongue of Jagai, as blown dust-devils go,
The dun he fled like a stag of ten, but the mare like a barren doe.
The dun he leaned against the bit and slugged his head above,
But the red mare played with the snaffle-bars, as a maiden plays with a
      glove.
There was rock to the left and rock to the right, and low lean thorn
      between,
And thrice he heard a breech-bolt snick tho' never a man was seen.
They have ridden the low moon out of the sky, their hoofs drum up the dawn,
The dun he went like a wounded bull, but the mare like a new-roused fawn.
The dun he fell at a water-course--in a woful heap fell he,
And Kamal has turned the red mare back, and pulled the rider free.
He has knocked the pistol out of his hand--small room was there to strive,
"'Twas only by favor of mine," quoth he, "ye rode so long alive:
There was not a rock of twenty mile, there was not a clump of tree,
But covered a man of my own men with his rifle cocked on his knee.
If I had raised my bridle-hand, as I have held it low,
The little jackals that flee so fast, were feasting all in a row:
If I had bowed my head on my breast, as I have held it high,
The kite that whistles above us now were gorged till she could not fly."
Lightly answered the Colonel's son: "Do good to bird and beast,
But count who come for the broken meats before thou makest a feast.
If there should follow a thousand swords to carry my bones away,
Belike the price of a jackal's meal were more than a thief could pay.
They will feed their horse on the standing crop, their men on the garnered
      grain,
The thatch of the byres will serve their fires when all the cattle are
      slain.
But if thou thinkest the price be fair,--thy brethren wait to sup.
The hound is kin to the jackal-spawn, howl, dog, and call them up!
And if thou thinkest the price be high, in steer and gear and stack,
Give me my father's mare again, and I'll fight my own way back!"
Kamal has gripped him by the hand and set him upon his feet.
"No talk shall be of dogs," said he, "when wolf and gray wolf meet.
May I eat dirt if thou hast hurt of me in deed or breath;
What dam of lances brought thee forth to jest at the dawn with Death?"
Lightly answered the Colonel's son: "I hold by the blood of my clan:
Take up the mare of my father's gift--by God, she has carried a man!"
The red mare ran to the Colonel's son, and nuzzled against his breast,
"We be two strong men," said Kamal then, "but she loveth the younger best.
So she shall go with a lifter's dower, my turquoise-studded rein,
My broidered saddle and saddle-cloth, and silver stirrups twain."
The Colonel's son a pistol drew and held it muzzle-end,
"Ye have taken the one from a foe," said he; "will ye take the mate from
      a friend?"
"A gift for a gift," said Kamal straight; "a limb for the risk of a limb.
Thy father has sent his son to me, I'll send my son to him!"
With that he whistled his only son, that dropped from a mountain-crest--
He trod the ling like a buck in spring, and he looked like a lance in rest.
"Now here is thy master," Kamal said, "who leads a troop of the Guides,
And thou must ride at his left side as shield on shoulder rides.
Till Death or I cut loose the tie, at camp and board and bed,
Thy life is his--thy fate is to guard him with thy head.
So thou must eat the White Queen's meat, and all her foes are thine,
And thou must harry thy father's hold for the peace of the Border-line,
And thou must make a trooper tough and hack thy way to power--
Belike they will raise thee to Ressaldar when I am hanged in Peshawur."
They have looked each other between the eyes, and there they found no
      fault,
They have taken the Oath of the Brother-in-Blood on leavened bread and
      salt:
They have taken the Oath of the Brother-in-Blood  on fire and fresh-cut
      sod,
On the hilt and the haft of the Khyber knife, and the wondrous Names of
      God.
The Colonel's son he rides the mare and Kamal's boy the dun,
And two have come back to Fort Bukloh where there went forth but one.
And when they drew to the Quarter-Guard, full twenty swords flew clear--
There was not a man but carried his feud with the blood of the mountaineer.
"Ha' done! ha' done!" said the Colonel's son. "Put up the steel at your
      sides!
Last night ye had struck at a Border thief--to-night 'tis a man of the
      Guides!"

Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the two shall meet,
Till Earth and Sky stand presently at God's great Judgment Seat;
But there is neither East nor West, Border, nor Breed, nor Birth,
When two strong men stand face to face, tho' they come from the ends
      of the earth.

    _Rudyard Kipling._

Annabel Lee

It was many and many a year ago,
  In a kingdom by the sea,
That a maiden there lived whom you may know
  By the name of Annabel Lee;
And this maiden she lived with no other thought
  Than to love and be loved by me.

I was a child, and she was a child,
  In this kingdom by the sea,
But we loved with a love that was more than love,
  I and my Annabel Lee;
With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven
  Coveted her and me.

And this was the reason that, long ago,
  In this kingdom by the sea,
A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling
  My beautiful Annabel Lee;
So that her highborn kinsmen came
  And bore her away from me,
To shut her up in a sepulchre
  In this kingdom by the sea.

The angels, not half so happy in heaven,
  Went envying her and me;
Yes! that was the reason (as all men know,
  In this kingdom by the sea)
That the wind came out of the cloud by night,
  Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.

But our love it was stronger by far than the love
  Of those who were older than we,
  Of many far wiser than we;
And neither the angels in heaven above,
  Nor the demons down under the sea,
Can ever dissever my soul from the soul
  Of the beautiful Annabel Lee:

For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams
  Of the beautiful Annabel Lee;
And the stars never rise, but I feel the bright eyes
  Of the beautiful Annabel Lee:
And so all the night-tide, I lie down by the side
Of my darling--my darling--my life and my bride,
  In her sepulchre there by the sea,
  In her tomb by the sounding sea.

    _Edgar Allan Poe._

April Showers

There fell an April shower, one night:
  Next morning, in the garden-bed,
The crocuses stood straight and gold:
  "And they have come," the children said.

There fell an April shower, one night:
  Next morning, thro' the woodland spread
The Mayflowers, pink and sweet as youth:
  "And they are come," the children said.

There fell an April shower, one night:
  Next morning, sweetly, overhead,
The blue-birds sung, the blue-birds sung:
  "And they have come," the children said.

    _Mary E. Wilkins._

The Voice of Spring

I come, I come! ye have called me long;
I come o'er the mountains, with light and song;
Ye may trace my step o'er the waking earth
By the winds which tell of the violet's birth,
By the primrose stars in the shadowy grass,
By the green leaves opening as I pass.

I have breathed on the South, and the chestnut flowers
By thousands have burst from the forest bowers,
And the ancient graves and the fallen fanes
Are veiled with wreaths as Italian plains;
But it is not for me, in my hour of bloom,
To speak of the ruin or the tomb!

I have looked o'er the hills of the stormy North,
And the larch has hung all his tassels forth;
The fisher is out on the sunny sea,
And the reindeer bounds o'er the pastures free,
And the pine has a fringe of softer green,
And the moss looks bright, where my step has been.

I have sent through the wood-paths a glowing sigh,
And called out each voice of the deep blue sky,
From the night-bird's lay through the starry time,
In the groves of the soft Hesperian clime,
To the swan's wild note by the Iceland lakes,
When the dark fir-branch into verdure breaks.

From the streams and founts I have loosed the chain;
They are sweeping on to the silvery main,
They are flashing down from the mountain brows,
They are flinging spray o'er the forest boughs,
They are bursting fresh from their sparry caves,
And the earth resounds with the joy of waves.

    _Felicia D. Hemans._

The Boys

Has there any old fellow got mixed with the boys?
If there has take him out, without making a noise.
Hang the Almanac's cheat and the Catalogue's spite!
Old Time is a liar! We're twenty tonight!

We're twenty! We're twenty! Who says we are more?
He's tipsy--young jackanapes!--show him the door!
"Gray temples at twenty?"--Yes! _white_ if we please;
Where the snowflakes fall thickest there's nothing can freeze!

Was it snowing I spoke of? Excuse the mistake!
Look close--you will see not a sign of a flake!
We want some new garlands for those we have shed,
And these are white roses in place of the red.

We've a trick, we young fellows, you may have been told.
Of talking (in public) as if we were old;
That boy we call "Doctor," and this we call "Judge";
It's a neat little fiction--of course it's all fudge.

That fellow's the "Speaker"--the one on the right;
"Mr. Mayor," my young one, how are you to-night?
That's our "Member of Congress," we say when we chaff;
There's the "Reverend" What's-his-name?--don't make me laugh.

That boy with the grave mathematical look
Made believe he had written a wonderful book,
And the ROYAL SOCIETY thought it was _true_!
So they chose him right in; a good joke it was, too!

There's a boy, we pretend, with a three-decker brain,
That could harness a team with a logical chain;
When he spoke for our manhood in syllabled fire,
We called him "The Justice," but now he's "The Squire."

And there's a nice youngster of excellent pith:
Fate tried to conceal him by naming him Smith;
But he shouted a song for the brave and the free--
Just read on his medal, "My country," "of thee!"

You hear that boy laughing? You think he's all fun;
But the angels laugh, too, at the good he has done.
The children laugh loud as they troop to his call,
And the poor man that knows him laughs loudest of all!

Yes, we're boys--always playing with tongue or with pen;
And I sometimes have asked, Shall we ever be men?
Shall we always be youthful and laughing and gay,
Till the last dear companion drops smiling away?

Then here's to our boyhood, its gold and its gray!
The stars of its winter, the dews of its May!
And when we have done with our life-lasting toys,
Dear Father, take care of Thy children, THE BOYS!

    _Oliver Wendell Holmes._

The Rainy Day

The day is cold, and dark, and dreary;
It rains, and the wind is never weary;
The vine still clings to the mouldering wall,
But at every gust the dead leaves fall,
  And the day is dark and dreary.

My life is cold, and dark, and dreary;
It rains, and the wind is never weary;
My thoughts still cling to the mouldering past,
But the hopes of youth fall thick in the blast,
  And the days are dark and dreary.

Be still, sad heart! and cease repining;
Behind the clouds is the sun still shining;
Thy fate is the common fate of all,
Into each life some rain must fall,
  Some days must be dark and dreary.

    _H.W. Longfellow._

Let Me Walk With the Men in the Road

'Tis only a half truth the poet has sung
  Of the "house by the side of the way";
Our Master had neither a house nor a home,
  But He walked with the crowd day by day.
And I think, when I read of the poet's desire,
  That a house by the road would be good;
But service is found in its tenderest form
  When we walk with the crowd in the road.

So I say, let me walk with the men in the road,
  Let me seek out the burdens that crush,
Let me speak a kind word of good cheer to the weak
  Who are falling behind in the rush.
There are wounds to be healed, there are breaks we must mend,
  There's a cup of cold water to give;
And the man in the road by the side of his friend
  Is the man who has learned to live.

Then tell me no more of the house by the road.
  There is only one place I can live--
It's there with the men who are toiling along,
  Who are needing the cheer I can give.
It is pleasant to live in the house by the way
  And be a friend, as the poet has said;
But the Master is bidding us, "Bear ye their load,
  For your rest waiteth yonder ahead."

I could not remain in the house by the road
  And watch as the toilers go on,
Their faces beclouded with pain and with sin,
  So burdened, their strength nearly gone.
I'll go to their side, I'll speak in good cheer,
  I'll help them to carry their load;
And I'll smile at the man in the house by the way,
  As I walk with the crowd in the road.

Out there in the road that goes by the house,
  Where the poet is singing his song,
I'll walk and I'll work midst the heat of the day,
  And I'll help falling brothers along--
Too busy to live in the house by the way,
  Too happy for such an abode.
And my heart sings its praise to the Master of all,
  Who is helping me serve in the road.

    _Walter J. Gresham._

If We Understood

Could we but draw back the curtains
That surround each other's lives,
See the naked heart and spirit,
Know what spur the action gives,
Often we should find it better,
Purer than we judged we should,
We should love each other better,
If we only understood.

Could we judge all deeds by motives,
See the good and bad within,
Often we should love the sinner
All the while we loathe the sin;
Could we know the powers working
To o'erthrow integrity,
We should judge each other's errors
With more patient charity.

If we knew the cares and trials,
Knew the effort all in vain,
And the bitter disappointment,
Understood the loss and gain--
Would the grim, eternal roughness
Seem--I wonder--just the same?
Should we help where now we hinder,
Should we pity where we blame?

Ah! we judge each other harshly,
Knowing not life's hidden force;
Knowing not the fount of action
Is less turbid at its source;
Seeing not amid the evil
All the golden grains of good;
Oh! we'd love each other better,
If we only understood.

A Laugh in Church

She sat on the sliding cushion,
  The dear, wee woman of four;
Her feet, in their shiny slippers,
  Hung dangling over the floor.
She meant to be good; she had promised,
  And so, with her big, brown eyes,
She stared at the meeting-house windows
  And counted the crawling flies.

She looked far up at the preacher,
  But she thought of the honey bees
Droning away at the blossoms
  That whitened the cherry trees.
She thought of a broken basket,
  Where, curled in a dusky heap,
_Three sleek, round puppies, with fringy ears
  Lay snuggled and fast asleep._

Such soft warm bodies to cuddle,
  Such queer little hearts to beat,
Such swift, round tongues to kiss,
  Such sprawling, cushiony feet;
She could feel in her clasping fingers
  The touch of a satiny skin
And a cold wet nose exploring
  The dimples under her chin.

Then a sudden ripple of laughter
  Ran over the parted lips
So quick that she could not catch it
  With her rosy finger-tips.
The people whispered, "Bless the child,"
  As each one waked from a nap,
But the dear, wee woman hid her face
  For shame in her mother's lap.

"One, Two, Three!"

It was an old, old, old, old lady,
  And a boy that was half past three;
And the way that they played together
  Was beautiful to see.

She couldn't go running and jumping,
  And the boy, no more could he;
For he was a thin little fellow,
  With a thin little twisted knee,

They sat in the yellow sunlight,
  Out under the maple-tree;
And the game that they played I'll tell you,
  Just as it was told to me.

It was Hide-and-Go-Seek they were playing,
  Though you'd never have known it to be--
With an old, old, old, old lady,
  And a boy with a twisted knee.

The boy would bend his face down
  On his one little sound right knee,
And he'd guess where she was hiding,
  In guesses One, Two, Three!

"You are in the china-closet!"
  He would cry, and laugh with glee--
It wasn't the china-closet;
  But he still had Two and Three.

"You are up in Papa's big bedroom,
  In the chest with the queer old key!"
And she said: "You are _warm_ and _warmer_;
  But you're not quite right," said she.

"It can't be the little cupboard
  Where Mamma's things used to be--
So it must be the clothes-press, Gran'ma!"
  And he found her with his Three.

Then she covered her face with her fingers,
  That were wrinkled and white and wee,
And she guessed where the boy was hiding,
  With a One and a Two and a Three.

And they never had stirred from their places,
  Right under the maple-tree--
This old, old, old, old lady,
  And the boy with the lame little knee--
This dear, dear, dear old lady,
  And the boy who was half past three.

    _Henry Cuyler Bunner._

Unawares

They said, "The Master is coming
  To honor the town to-day,
And none can tell at what house or home
  The Master will choose to stay."
And I thought while my heart beat wildly,
  What if He should come to mine,
How would I strive to entertain
  And honor the Guest Divine!

And straight I turned to toiling
  To make my house more neat;
I swept, and polished, and garnished.
  And decked it with blossoms sweet.
I was troubled for fear the Master
  Might come ere my work was done,
And I hasted and worked the faster,
  And watched the hurrying sun.

But right in the midst of my duties
  A woman came to my door;
She had come to tell me her sorrows
  And my comfort and aid to implore,
And I said, "I cannot listen
  Nor help you any, to-day;
I have greater things to attend to."
  And the pleader turned away.

But soon there came another--
  A cripple, thin, pale and gray--
And said, "Oh, let me stop and rest
  A while in your house, I pray!
I have traveled far since morning,
  I am hungry, and faint, and weak;
My heart is full of misery,
  And comfort and help I seek."

And I cried, "I am grieved and sorry,
  But I cannot help you to-day.
I look for a great and noble Guest,"
  And the cripple went away;
And the day wore onward swiftly--
  And my task was nearly done,
And a prayer was ever in my heart
  That the Master to me might come.

And I thought I would spring to meet Him,
  And serve him with utmost care,
When a little child stood by me
  With a face so sweet and fair--
Sweet, but with marks of teardrops--
  And his clothes were tattered and old;
A finger was bruised and bleeding,
  And his little bare feet were cold.

And I said, "I'm sorry for you--
  You are sorely in need of care;
But I cannot stop to give it,
  You must hasten otherwhere."
And at the words, a shadow
  Swept o'er his blue-veined brow,--
"Someone will feed and clothe you, dear,
  But I am too busy now."

At last the day was ended,
  And my toil was over and done;
My house was swept and garnished--
  And I watched in the dark--alone.
Watched--but no footfall sounded,
  No one paused at my gate;
No one entered my cottage door;
  I could only pray--and wait.

I waited till night had deepened,
  And the Master had not come.
"He has entered some other door," I said,
  "And gladdened some other home!"
My labor had been for nothing,
  And I bowed my head and I wept,
My heart was sore with longing--
  Yet--in spite of it all--I slept.

Then the Master stood before me,
  And his face was grave and fair;
"Three times to-day I came to your door,
  And craved your pity and care;
Three times you sent me onward,
  Unhelped and uncomforted;
And the blessing you might have had was lost,
  And your chance to serve has fled."

"O Lord, dear Lord, forgive me!
  How could I know it was Thee?"
My very soul was shamed and bowed
  In the depths of humility.
And He said, "The sin is pardoned,
  But the blessing is lost to thee;
For comforting not the least of Mine
  You have failed to comfort Me."

    _Emma A. Lent._

The Land of Beginning Again

I wish there were some wonderful place
Called the Land of Beginning Again,
Where all our mistakes and all our heartaches,
And all our poor, selfish griefs
Could be dropped, like a shabby old coat, at the door,
And never put on again.

I wish we could come on it all unaware,
Like the hunter who finds a lost trail;
And I wish that the one whom our blindness had done
The greatest injustice of all
Could be at the gate like the old friend that waits
For the comrade he's gladdest to hail.

We would find the things we intended to do,
But forgot and remembered too late--
Little praises unspoken, little promises broken,
And all of the thousand and one
Little duties neglected that might have perfected
The days of one less fortunate.

It wouldn't be possible not to be kind.
In the Land of Beginning Again;
And the ones we misjudged and the ones whom we grudged
Their moments of victory here,
Would find the grasp of our loving handclasp
More than penitent lips could explain.

For what had been hardest we'd know had been best,
And what had seemed loss would be gain,
For there isn't a sting that will not take wing
When we've faced it and laughed it away;
And I think that the laughter is most what we're after,
In the Land of Beginning Again.

So I wish that there were some wonderful place
Called the Land of Beginning Again,
Where all our mistakes and all our heartaches,
And all our poor, selfish griefs
Could be dropped, like a ragged old coat, at the door,
And never put on again.

    _Louisa Fletcher Tarkington._

Poor Little Joe

Prop yer eyes wide open, Joey,
  Fur I've brought you sumpin' great.
Apples? No, a derned sight better!
  Don't you take no int'rest? Wait!
Flowers, Joe--I know'd you'd like 'em--
  Ain't them scrumptious? Ain't them high?
Tears, my boy? Wot's them fur, Joey?
  There--poor little Joe--don't cry!

I was skippin' past a winder
  W'ere a bang-up lady sot,
All amongst a lot of bushes--
  Each one climbin' from a pot;
Every bush had flowers on it--
  Pretty? Mebbe not! Oh, no!
Wish you could 'a seen 'em growin',
  It was such a stunnin' show.

Well, I thought of you, poor feller,
  Lyin' here so sick and weak,
Never knowin' any comfort,
  And I puts on lots o' cheek.
"Missus," says I, "if you please, mum,
  Could I ax you for a rose?
For my little brother, missus--
  Never seed one, I suppose."

Then I told her all about you--
  How I bringed you up--poor Joe!
(Lackin' women folks to do it)
  Sich a imp you was, you know--
Till you got that awful tumble,
  Jist as I had broke yer in
(Hard work, too), to earn your livin'
  Blackin' boots for honest tin.

How that tumble crippled of you,
  So's you couldn't hyper much--
Joe, it hurted when I seen you
  Fur the first time with yer crutch.
"But," I says, "he's laid up now, mum,
  'Pears to weaken every day";
Joe, she up and went to cuttin'--
  That's the how of this bokay.

Say! it seems to me, ole feller,
  You is quite yourself to-night--
Kind o' chirk--it's been a fortnit
  Sense yer eyes has been so bright.
Better? Well, I'm glad to hear it!
  Yes, they're mighty pretty, Joe.
Smellin' of 'em's made you happy?
  Well, I thought it would, you know.

Never see the country, did you?
  Flowers growin' everywhere!
Some time when you're better, Joey,
  Mebbe I kin take you there.
Flowers in heaven? 'M--I s'pose so;
  Dunno much about it, though;
Ain't as fly as wot I might be
  On them topics, little Joe.

But I've heerd it hinted somewheres
  That in heaven's golden gates
Things is everlastin' cheerful--
  B'lieve that's what the Bible states.
Likewise, there folks don't git hungry:
  So good people, w'en they dies,
Finds themselves well fixed forever--
  Joe my boy, wot ails yer eyes?

Thought they looked a little sing'ler.
  Oh, no! Don't you have no fear;
Heaven was made fur such as you is--
  Joe, wot makes you look so queer?
Here--wake up! Oh, don't look that way!
  Joe! My boy! Hold up yer head!
Here's yer flowers--you dropped em, Joey.
  Oh, my God, can Joe be dead?

    _David L. Proudfit (Peleg Arkwright)._

The Ladder of St. Augustine

Saint Augustine! well hast thou said,
  That of our vices we can frame
A ladder, if we will but tread
  Beneath our feet each deed of shame!

All common things, each day's events,
  That with the hour begin and end,
Our pleasures and our discontents,
  Are rounds by which we may ascend.

The low desire, the base design,
  That makes another's virtues less;
The revel of the ruddy wine,
  And all occasions of excess;

The longing for ignoble things;
  The strife for triumph more than truth;
The hardening of the heart, that brings
  Irreverence for the dreams of youth;

All thoughts of ill; all evil deeds,
  That have their root in thoughts of ill;
Whatever hinders or impedes
  The action of the nobler will;--

All these must first be trampled down
  Beneath our feet, if we would gain
In the bright fields of fair renown
  The right of eminent domain.

We have not wings, we cannot soar;
  But we have feet to scale and climb
By slow degrees, by more and more,
  The cloudy summits of our time.

The mighty pyramids of stone
  That wedge-like cleave the desert airs,
When nearer seen, and better known,
  Are but gigantic flights of stairs,

The distant mountains, that uprear
  Their solid bastions to the skies,
Are crossed by pathways, that appear
  As we to higher levels rise.

The heights by great men reached and kept
  Were not attained by sudden flight.
But they, while their companions slept,
  Were toiling upward in the night.

Standing on what too long we bore
  With shoulders bent and downcast eyes,
We may discern--unseen before--
  A path to higher destinies.

Nor deem the irrevocable Past
  As wholly wasted, wholly vain,
If, rising on its wrecks, at last
  To something nobler we attain.

    _H.W. Longfellow._

Loss and Gain

  When I compare
What I have lost with what I have gained,
What I have missed with what attained,
  Little room do I find for pride.

  I am aware
How many days have been idly spent;
How like an arrow the good intent
  Has fallen short or been turned aside.

  But who shall dare
To measure loss and gain in this wise?
Defeat may be victory in disguise;
  The lowest ebb in the turn of the tide.

    _H.W. Longfellow._

John Thompson's Daughter

(A Parody on "Lord Ullin's Daughter")

A fellow near Kentucky's clime
  Cries, "Boatman, do not tarry,
And I'll give thee a silver dime
  To row us o'er the ferry."

"Now, who would cross the Ohio,
  This dark and stormy water?"
"Oh, I am this young lady's beau,
  And she John Thompson's daughter.

"We've fled before her father's spite
  With great precipitation,
And should he find us here to-night,
  I'd lose my reputation.

"They've missed the girl and purse beside,
  His horsemen hard have pressed me.
And who will cheer my bonny bride,
  If yet they shall arrest me?"

Out spoke the boatman then in time,
  "You shall not fail, don't fear it;
I'll go not for your silver dime,
  But--for your manly spirit.

"And by my word, the bonny bird
  In danger shall not tarry;
For though a storm is coming on,
  I'll row you o'er the ferry."

By this the wind more fiercely rose,
  The boat was at the landing,
And with the drenching rain their clothes
  Grew wet where they were standing.

But still, as wilder rose the wind,
  And as the night grew drearer,
Just back a piece came the police,
  Their tramping sounded nearer.

"Oh, haste thee, haste!" the lady cries,
  "It's anything but funny;
I'll leave the light of loving eyes,
  But not my father's money!"

And still they hurried in the race
  Of wind and rain unsparing;
John Thompson reached the landing-place,
  His wrath was turned to swearing.

For by the lightning's angry flash,
  His child he did discover;
One lovely hand held all the cash,
  And one was round her lover!

"Come back, come back," he cried in woe,
  Across the stormy water;
"But leave the purse, and you may go,
  My daughter, oh, my daughter!"

'Twas vain; they reached the other shore,
  (Such dooms the Fates assign us),
The gold he piled went with his child,
  And he was left there, minus.

    _Phoebe Cary._

Grandfather's Clock

My grandfather's clock was too tall for the shelf,
So it stood ninety years on the floor;
It was taller by half than the old man himself,
Though it weighed not a pennyweight more.
It was bought on the morn of the day that he was born,
And was always his treasure and pride,
But it stopped short ne'er to go again
  When the old man died.

In watching its pendulum swing to and fro,
Many hours had he spent while a boy;
And in childhood and manhood the clock seemed to know
And to share both his grief and his joy,
For it struck twenty-four when he entered at the door,
With a blooming and beautiful bride,
But it stopped short never to go again
  When the old man died.

My grandfather said that of those he could hire,
Not a servant so faithful he found,
For it wasted no time and had but one desire,
At the close of each week to be wound.
And it kept in its place, not a frown upon its face,
And its hands never hung by its side.
But it stopped short never to go again
  When the old man died.

    _Henry C. Work._

A Cradle Hymn

Hush! my dear, lie still and slumber,
  Holy angels guard thy bed!
Heavenly blessings without number
  Gently falling on thy head.

Sleep, my babe; thy food and raiment,
  House and home, thy friends provide;
All without thy care or payment:
  All thy wants are well supplied.

How much better thou'rt attended
  Than the Son of God could be,
When from heaven He descended
  And became a child like thee!

Soft and easy is thy cradle:
  Coarse and hard thy Saviour lay,
When His birthplace was a stable
  And His softest bed was hay.

Blessed babe! what glorious features--
  Spotless fair, divinely bright!
Must He dwell with brutal creatures?
  How could angels bear the sight?

Was there nothing but a manger
  Cursed sinners could afford
To receive the heavenly stranger?
  Did they thus affront their Lord?

Soft, my child: I did not chide thee,
  Though my song might sound too hard;
'Tis thy mother sits beside thee,
  And her arm shall be thy guard.

       *       *       *       *       *

See the kinder shepherds round Him,
  Telling wonders from the sky!
Where they sought Him, there they found Him,
  With His Virgin mother by.

See the lovely babe a-dressing;
  Lovely infant, how He smiled!
When He wept, His mother's blessing
  Soothed and hush'd the holy Child,

Lo, He slumbers in a manger,
  Where the horned oxen fed:--
Peace, my darling, here's no danger;
  There's no ox anear thy bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

May'st thou live to know and fear Him,
  Trust and love Him all thy days;
Then go dwell forever near Him,
  See His face, and sing His praise!

    _Isaac Watts._

If All the Skies

If all the skies were sunshine,
Our faces would be fain
To feel once more upon them
The cooling splash of rain.

If all the world were music,
Our hearts would often long
For one sweet strain of silence,
To break the endless song.

If life were always merry,
Our souls would seek relief,
And rest from weary laughter
In the quiet arms of grief.

    _Henry van Dyke._

The Petrified Fern

In a valley, centuries ago,
  Grew a little fern leaf, green and slender,
  Veining delicate and fibers tender,
Waving when the wind crept down so low;
Rushes tall, and moss, and grass grew round it;
Playful sunbeams darted in and found it;
Drops of dew stole down by night and crowned it;
But no foot of man e'er came that way;
Earth was young and keeping holiday.

Monster fishes swam the silent main;
  Stately forests waved their giant branches;
  Mountains hurled their snowy avalanches;
Mammoth creatures stalked across the plain,
Nature reveled in grand mysteries.
But the little fern was not like these,
Did not number with the hills and trees,
Only grew and waved its sweet, wild way;
No one came to note it day by day.

Earth, one time, put on a frolic mood,
  Heaved the rocks and changed the mighty motion
  Of the strong, dread currents of the ocean;
Moved the hills and shook the haughty wood;
Crushed the little fern in soft, moist clay,
Covered it, and hid it safe away.
Oh, the long, long centuries since that day;
Oh, the changes! Oh, life's bitter cost,
Since the little useless fern was lost!

Useless? Lost? There came a thoughtful man
  Searching Nature's secrets far and deep;
  From a fissure in a rocky steep
He withdrew a stone, o'er which there ran
Fairy pencilings, a quaint design,
Leafage, veining, fibers, clear and fine,
And the fern's life lay in every line.
So, I think, God hides some souls away,
Sweetly to surprise us the Last Day.

    _Mary L. Bolles Branch._

Cleon and I

Cleon hath ten thousand acres,
  Ne'er a one have I;
Cleon dwelleth in a palace,
  In a cottage, I;
Cleon hath a dozen fortunes,
  Not a penny, I,
Yet the poorer of the twain is
  Cleon, and not I.

Cleon, true, possesseth acres,
  But the landscape, I;
Half the charms to me it yieldeth
  Money cannot buy;
Cleon harbors sloth and dullness,
  Freshening vigor, I;
He in velvet, I in fustian--
  Richer man am I.

Cleon is a slave to grandeur,
  Free as thought am I;
Cleon fees a score of doctors,
  Need of none have I;
Wealth-surrounded, care-environed,
  Cleon fears to die;
Death may come--he'll find me ready,
  Happier man am I.

Cleon sees no charms in nature,
  In a daisy, I;
Cleon hears no anthems ringing
  'Twixt the sea and sky;
Nature sings to me forever,
  Earnest listener, I;
State for state, with all attendants--
  Who would change?--Not I.

    _Charles Mackay._

Washington

Great were the hearts and strong the minds
  Of those who framed in high debate
The immortal league of love that binds
  Our fair, broad empire, State with State.

And deep the gladness of the hour
  When, as the auspicious task was done,
In solemn trust the sword of power
  Was given to Glory's Unspoiled Son.

That noble race is gone--the suns
  Of fifty years have risen and set;--
But the bright links, those chosen ones,
  So strongly forged, are brighter yet.

Wide--as our own free race increase--
  Wide shall extend the elastic chain,
And bind in everlasting peace
  State after State, a mighty train.

    _W.C. Bryant._

Towser Shall Be Tied To-Night

A Parody on "Curfew Shall Not Ring Tonight."

Slow the Kansas sun was setting,
  O'er the wheat fields far away,
Streaking all the air with cobwebs
  At the close of one hot day;
And the last rays kissed the forehead
  Of a man and maiden fair,
He with whiskers short and frowsy,
  She with red and glistening hair,
He with shut jaws stern and silent;
She, with lips all cold and white,
Struggled to keep back the murmur,
  "Towser shall be tied to-night."

"Papa," slowly spoke the daughter,
  "I am almost seventeen,
And I have a real lover,
  Though he's rather young and green;
But he has a horse and buggy
  And a cow and thirty hens,--
Boys that start out poor, dear Papa,
  Make the best of honest men,
But if Towser sees and bites him,
Fills his eyes with misty light,
He will never come again, Pa;
  Towser must be tied to-night."

"Daughter," firmly spoke the farmer,
  (Every word pierced her young heart
Like a carving knife through chicken
  As it hunts the tender part)--
"I've a patch of early melons,
  Two of them are ripe to-day;
Towser must be loose to watch them
  Or they'll all be stole away.
I have hoed them late and early
  In dim morn and evening light;
Now they're grown I must not lose them;
  Towser'll not be tied to-night."

Then the old man ambled forward,
  Opened wide the kennel-door,
Towser bounded forth to meet him
  As he oft had done before.
And the farmer stooped and loosed him
  From the dog-chain short and stout;
To himself he softly chuckled,
  "Bessie's feller must look out."
But the maiden at the window
  Saw the cruel teeth show white;
In an undertone she murmured,--
  "Towser must be tied to-night."

Then the maiden's brow grew thoughtful
  And her breath came short and quick,
Till she spied the family clothesline,
  And she whispered, "That's the trick."
From the kitchen door she glided
  With a plate of meat and bread;
Towser wagged his tail in greeting,
  Knowing well he would be fed.
In his well-worn leather collar,
  Tied she then the clothesline tight,
All the time her white lips saying:
  "Towser shall be tied to-night,"

"There, old doggie," spoke the maiden,
  "You can watch the melon patch,
But the front gate's free and open,
  When John Henry lifts the latch.
For the clothesline tight is fastened
  To the harvest apple tree,
You can run and watch the melons,
  But the front gate you can't see."
Then her glad ears hear a buggy,
  And her eyes grow big and bright,
While her young heart says in gladness,
  "Towser dog is tied to-night."

Up the path the young man saunters
  With his eye and cheek aglow;
For he loves the red-haired maiden
  And he aims to tell her so.
Bessie's roguish little brother,
  In a fit of boyish glee,
Had untied the slender clothesline,
  From the harvest apple tree.
Then old Towser heard the footsteps,
  Raised his bristles, fixed for fight,--
"Bark away," the maiden whispers;
  "Towser, you are tied to-night."

Then old Towser bounded forward,
  Passed the open kitchen door;
Bessie screamed and quickly followed,
  But John Henry's gone before.
Down the path he speeds most quickly,
  For old Towser sets the pace;
And the maiden close behind them
  Shows them she is in the race.
Then the clothesline, can she get it?
  And her eyes grow big and bright;
And she springs and grasps it firmly:
  "Towser shall be tied to-night."

Oftentimes a little minute
  Forms the destiny of men.
You can change the fate of nations
  By the stroke of one small pen.
Towser made one last long effort,
  Caught John Henry by the pants,
But John Henry kept on running
  For he thought that his last chance.
But the maiden held on firmly,
  And the rope was drawn up tight.
But old Towser kept the garments,
  For he was not tied that night.

Then the father hears the racket;
  With long strides he soon is there,
When John Henry and the maiden,
  Crouching, for the worst prepare.
At his feet John tells his story,
  Shows his clothing soiled and torn;
And his face so sad and pleading,
  Yet so white and scared and worn,
Touched the old man's heart with pity,
  Filled his eyes with misty light.
"Take her, boy, and make her happy,--
  Towser shall be tied to-night."

Law and Liberty

O Liberty, thou child of Law,
  God's seal is on thy brow!
O Law, her Mother first and last,
  God's very self art thou!
Two flowers alike, yet not alike,
  On the same stem that grow,
Two friends who cannot live apart,
  Yet seem each other's foe.
One, the smooth river's mirrored flow
  Which decks the world with green;
And one, the bank of sturdy rock
  Which hems the river in.
O Daughter of the timeless Past,
  O Hope the Prophets saw,
God give us Law in Liberty
  And Liberty in Law!

    _E.J. Cutler._

His Mother's Song

Beneath the hot midsummer sun
  The men had marched all day,
And now beside a rippling stream
  Upon the grass they lay.
Tiring of games and idle jest
  As swept the hours along,
They cried to one who mused apart,
  "Come, friend, give us a song."

"I fear I can not please," he said;
  "The only songs I know
Are those my mother used to sing
  For me long years ago."
"Sing one of those," a rough voice cried.
"There's none but true men here;
To every mother's son of us
  A mother's songs are dear."

Then sweetly rose the singer's voice
  Amid unwonted calm:
"Am I a soldier of the Cross,
  A follower of the Lamb?
And shall I fear to own His cause?"
  The very stream was stilled,
And hearts that never throbbed with fear,
  With tender thoughts were filled.

Ended the song, the singer said,
  As to his feet he rose,
"Thanks to you all, my friends; goodnight.
  God grant us sweet repose."
"Sing us one more," the captain begged.
  The soldier bent his head,
Then, glancing round, with smiling lips,
  "You'll join with me?" he said.

"We'll sing that old familiar air
  Sweet as the bugle call,
'All hail the power of Jesus' name!
  Let angels prostrate fall.'"
Ah, wondrous was the old tune's spell.
  As on the soldiers sang;
Man after man fell into line,
  And loud the voices rang.

The songs are done, the camp is still,
  Naught but the stream is heard;
But, ah! the depths of every soul
  By those old hymns are stirred,
And up from many a bearded lip,
  In whispers soft and low,
Rises the prayer that mother taught
  Her boy long years ago.

When Father Carves the Duck

We all look on with anxious eyes
  When Father carves the duck,
And Mother almost always sighs
  When Father carves the duck;
Then all of us prepare to rise
And hold our bibs before our eyes,
And be prepared for some surprise
  When Father carves the duck.

He braces up and grabs the fork,
  Whene'er he carves the duck,
And won't allow a soul to talk
  Until he carves the duck.
The fork is jabbed into the sides,
Across the breast the knife he slides,
While every careful person hides
  From flying chips of duck.

The platter's always sure to slip
  When Father carves the duck,
And how it makes the dishes skip--
  Potatoes fly amuck.
The squash and cabbage leap in space,
We get some gravy in our face,
And Father mutters Hindoo grace
  Whene'er he carves a duck.

We then have learned to walk around
  The dining room and pluck
From off the window-sills and walls
  Our share of Father's duck.
While Father growls and blows and jaws,
And swears the knife was full of flaws,
And Mother laughs at him because
  He couldn't carve a duck.

    _E.V. Wright._

Papa's Letter

I was sitting in my study,
  Writing letters when I heard,
"Please, dear mamma, Mary told me
  Mamma mustn't be 'isturbed.

"But I'se tired of the kitty,
  Want some ozzer fing to do.
Witing letters, is 'ou, mamma?
  Tan't I wite a letter too?"

"Not now, darling, mamma's busy;
  Run and play with kitty, now."
"No, no, mamma, me wite letter;
  Tan if 'ou will show me how."

I would paint my darling's portrait
  As his sweet eyes searched my face--
Hair of gold and eyes of azure,
  Form of childish, witching grace.

But the eager face was clouded,
  As I slowly shook my head,
Till I said, "I'll make a letter
  Of you, darling boy, instead."

So I parted back the tresses
  From his forehead high and white,
And a stamp in sport I pasted
  'Mid its waves of golden light.

Then I said, "Now, little letter,
  Go away and bear good news."
And I smiled as down the staircase
  Clattered loud the little shoes.

Leaving me, the darling hurried
  Down to Mary in his glee,
"Mamma's witing lots of letters;
  I'se a letter, Mary--see!"

No one heard the little prattler,
  As once more he climbed the stair,
Reached his little cap and tippet,
  Standing on the entry stair.

No one heard the front door open,
  No one saw the golden hair,
As it floated o'er his shoulders
  In the crisp October air.

Down the street the baby hastened
  Till he reached the office door.
"I'se a letter, Mr. Postman;
  Is there room for any more?

"'Cause dis letter's doin' to papa,
  Papa lives with God, 'ou know,
Mamma sent me for a letter,
  Does 'ou fink 'at I tan go?"

But the clerk in wonder answered,
  "Not to-day, my little man."
"Den I'll find anozzer office,
  'Cause I must go if I tan."

Fain the clerk would have detained him,
  But the pleading face was gone,
And the little feet were hastening--
  By the busy crowd swept on.

Suddenly the crowd was parted,
  People fled to left and right,
As a pair of maddened horses
  At the moment dashed in sight.

No one saw the baby figure--
  No one saw the golden hair,
Till a voice of frightened sweetness
  Rang out on the autumn air.

'Twas too late--a moment only
  Stood the beauteous vision there,
Then the little face lay lifeless,
  Covered o'er with golden hair.

Reverently they raised my darling,
  Brushed away the curls of gold,
Saw the stamp upon the forehead,
  Growing now so icy cold.

Not a mark the face disfigured,
  Showing where a hoof had trod;
But the little life was ended--
  "Papa's letter" was with God.

Who Stole the Bird's Nest?

"To-whit! to-whit! to-whee!
Will you listen to me?
Who stole four eggs I laid,
And the nice nest I made?"

"Not I," said the cow, "Moo-oo!
Such a thing I'd never do;
I gave you a wisp of hay,
But didn't take your nest away.
Not I," said the cow, "Moo-oo!
Such a thing I'd never do."

"To-whit! to-whit! to-whee!
Will you listen to me?
Who stole four eggs I laid,
And the nice nest I made?"

"Not I," said the dog, "Bow-wow!
I wouldn't be so mean, anyhow!
I gave the hairs the nest to make,
But the nest I did not take.
Not I," said the dog, "Bow-wow!
I'm not so mean, anyhow."

"To-whit! to-whit! to-whee!
Will you listen to me?
Who stole four eggs I laid,
And the nice nest I made?"

"Not I," said the sheep, "oh, no!
I wouldn't treat a poor bird so.
I gave the wool the nest to line,
But the nest was none of mine.
Baa! Baa!" said the sheep; "oh, no!
I wouldn't treat a poor bird so."

"Caw! Caw!" cried the crow;
"I should like to know
What thief took away
A bird's nest to-day?"

"I would not rob a bird,"
Said little Mary Green;
"I think I never heard
Of anything so mean."

"It is very cruel, too,"
Said little Alice Neal;
"I wonder if he knew
How sad the bird would feel?"

A little boy hung down his head,
And went and hid behind the bed,
For he stole that pretty nest
From poor little yellow-breast;
And he felt so full of shame,
He didn't like to tell his name.

    _Lydia Maria Child._

Over the Hill from the Poor-House

I, who was always counted, they say,
Rather a bad stick anyway,
Splintered all over with dodges and tricks,
Known as "the worst of the Deacon's six";
I, the truant, saucy and bold,
The one black sheep in my father's fold,
"Once on a time," as the stories say,
Went over the hill on a winter's day--
  _Over the hill to the poor-house._

Tom could save what twenty could earn;
But _givin'_ was somethin' he ne'er would learn;
Isaac could half o' the Scriptur's speak--
Committed a hundred verses a week;
Never forgot, an' never slipped;
But "Honor thy father and mother," he skipped;
  _So over the hill to the poor-house!_

As for Susan, her heart was kind
An' good--what there was of it, mind;
Nothin' too big, an' nothin' too nice,
Nothin' she wouldn't sacrifice
For one she loved; an' that 'ere one
Was herself, when all was said an' done;
An' Charley an' 'Becca meant well, no doubt,
But anyone could pull 'em about;
An' all o' our folks ranked well, you see,
Save one poor fellow, an' that was me;
An' when, one dark an' rainy night,
A neighbor's horse went out o' sight,
They hitched on me, as the guilty chap
That carried one end o' the halter-strap.
An' I think, myself, that view of the case
Wasn't altogether out o' place;
My mother denied it, as mothers do,
But I am inclined to believe 'twas true.
Though for me one thing might be said--
That I, as well as the horse, was led;
And the worst of whisky spurred me on,
Or else the deed would have never been done.
But the keenest grief I ever felt
Was when my mother beside me knelt,
An' cried, an' prayed, till I melted down,
As I wouldn't for half the horses in town.
I kissed her fondly, then an' there,
An' swore henceforth to be honest and square.

I served my sentence--a bitter pill
Some fellows should take who never will;
And then I decided to go "out West,"
Concludin' 'twould suit my health the best;
Where, how I prospered, I never could tell,
But Fortune seemed to like me well;
An' somehow every vein I struck
Was always bubbling over with luck.
An', better than that, I was steady an' true,
An' put my good resolutions through.
But I wrote to a trusty old neighbor, an' said,
"You tell 'em, old fellow, that I am dead,
An' died a Christian; 'twill please 'em more,
Than if I had lived the same as before."

But when this neighbor he wrote to me,
"Your mother's in the poor-house," says he,
I had a resurrection straightway,
An' started for her that very day.
And when I arrived where I was grown,
I took good care that I shouldn't be known;
But I bought the old cottage, through and through,
Of someone Charley had sold it to;
And held back neither work nor gold
To fix it up as it was of old.
The same big fire-place, wide and high,
Flung up its cinders toward the sky;
The old clock ticked on the corner-shelf--
I wound it an' set it a-goin' myself;
An' if everything wasn't just the same,
Neither I nor money was to blame;
  _Then--over the hill to the poor-house!_

One blowin', blusterin' winter's day,
With a team an' cutter I started away;
My fiery nags was as black as coal;
(They some'at resembled the horse I stole;)
I hitched, an' entered the poor-house door--
A poor old woman was scrubbin' the floor;
She rose to her feet in great surprise,
And looked, quite startled, into my eyes;
I saw the whole of her trouble's trace
In the lines that marred her dear old face;
"Mother!" I shouted, "your sorrows is done!
You're adopted along o' your horse thief son,
  _Come over the hill from the poor-house!"_

She didn't faint; she knelt by my side,
An' thanked the Lord, till I fairly cried.
An' maybe our ride wasn't pleasant an' gay,
An' maybe she wasn't wrapped up that day;
An' maybe our cottage wasn't warm an' bright,
An' maybe it wasn't a pleasant sight,
To see her a-gettin' the evenin's tea,
An' frequently stoppin' an' kissin' me;
An' maybe we didn't live happy for years,
In spite of my brothers' and sisters' sneers,
Who often said, as I have heard,
That they wouldn't own a prison-bird;
(Though they're gettin' over that, I guess,
For all of 'em owe me more or less;)
But I've learned one thing; an' it cheers a man
In always a-doin' the best he can;
That whether on the big book, a blot
Gets over a fellow's name or not,
Whenever he does a deed that's white,
It's credited to him fair and right.
An' when you hear the great bugle's notes,
An' the Lord divides his sheep and goats,
However they may settle my case,
Wherever they may fix my place,
My good old Christian mother, you'll see,
Will be sure to stand right up for me,
  With _over the hill from the poor-house!_

    _Will Carleton._

"'Specially Jim"

I was mighty good-lookin' when I was young,
  Peart an' black-eyed an' slim,
With fellers a-courtin' me Sunday nights,
  'Specially Jim.

The likeliest one of 'em all was he,
  Chipper an' han'som' an' trim,
But I tossed up my head an' made fun o' the crowds
  'Specially Jim!

I said I hadn't no 'pinion o' men,
  An' I wouldn't take stock in him!
But they kep' up a-comin' in spite o' my talk,
  'Specially Jim!

I got so tired o' havin' 'em roun'
  ('Specially Jim!)
I made up my mind I'd settle down
  An' take up with him.

So we was married one Sunday in church,
  'Twas crowded full to the brim;
'Twas the only way to get rid of 'em all,
  'Specially Jim.

O'Grady's Goat

O'Grady lived in Shanty row,
  The neighbors often said
They wished that Tim would move away
  Or that his goat was dead.
He kept the neighborhood in fear,
  And the children always vexed;
They couldn't tell jist whin or where
  The goat would pop up next.

Ould Missis Casey stood wan day
  The dirty clothes to rub
Upon the washboard, when she dived
  Headforemosht o'er the tub;
She lit upon her back an' yelled,
  As she was lying flat:
"Go git your goon an' kill the bashte."
  O'Grady's goat doon that.

Pat Doolan's woife hung out the wash
  Upon the line to dry.
She wint to take it in at night,
  But stopped to have a cry.
The sleeves av two red flannel shirts,
  That once were worn by Pat,
Were chewed off almost to the neck.
  O'Grady's goat doon that.

They had a party at McCune's,
  An' they wor having foon,
Whin suddinly there was a crash
  An' ivrybody roon.
The iseter soup fell on the floor
  An' nearly drowned the cat;
The stove was knocked to smithereens.
  O'Grady's goat doon that.

Moike Dyle was coortin' Biddy Shea,
  Both standin' at the gate,
An' they wor just about to kiss
  Aich oother sly and shwate.
They coom togither loike two rams.
  An' mashed their noses flat.
They niver shpake whin they goes by.
  O'Grady's goat doon that.

O'Hoolerhan brought home a keg
  Av dannymite wan day
To blow a cistern in his yard
  An' hid the stuff away.
But suddinly an airthquake coom,
  O'Hoolerhan, house an' hat,
An' ivrything in sight wint up.
  O'Grady's goat doon that.

An' there was Dooley's Savhin's Bank,
  That held the byes' sphare cash.
One day the news came doon the sthreet
  The bank had gone to smash.
An' ivrybody 'round was dum
  Wid anger and wid fear,
Fer on the dhoor they red the whords,
  "O'Grady's goat sthruck here."

The folks in Grady's naborhood
  All live in fear and fright;
They think it's certain death to go
  Around there after night.
An' in their shlape they see a ghost
  Upon the air afloat,
An' wake thimselves by shoutin' out:
  "Luck out for Grady's goat."

    _Will S. Hays._

The Burial of Moses

"And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against
Bethpeor; but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day."

By Nebo's lonely mountain,
  On this side Jordan's wave,
In a vale in the land of Moab
  There lies a lonely grave,
And no man knows that sepulchre,
  And no man saw it e'er,
For the angels of God upturn'd the sod
  And laid the dead man there.

That was the grandest funeral
  That ever pass'd on earth;
But no man heard the trampling,
  Or saw the train go forth--
Noiselessly as the daylight
  Comes back when night is done,
And the crimson streak on ocean's cheek
  Grows into the great sun.

Noiselessly as the springtime
  Her crown of verdure weaves,
And all the trees on all the hills
  Open their thousand leaves;
So without sound of music,
  Or voice of them that wept,
Silently down from the mountain's crown
  The great procession swept.

Perchance the bald old eagle
  On gray Beth-peor's height,
Out of his lonely eyrie
  Look'd on the wondrous sight;
Perchance the lion, stalking,
  Still shuns that hallow'd spot,
For beast and bird have seen and heard
  That which man knoweth not.

But when the warrior dieth,
  His comrades in the war,
With arms reversed and muffled drum,
  Follow his funeral car;
They show the banners taken,
  They tell his battles won,
And after him lead his masterless steed,
  While peals the minute gun.

Amid the noblest of the land
  We lay the sage to rest,
And give the bard an honor'd place,
  With costly marble drest,
In the great minster transept
  Where lights like glories fall,
And the organ rings, and the sweet choir sings
  Along the emblazon'd wall.

This was the truest warrior
  That ever buckled sword,
This was the most gifted poet
  That ever breathed a word;
And never earth's philosopher
  Traced with his golden pen,
On the deathless page, truths half so sage
  As he wrote down for men.

And had he not high honor,--
  The hillside for a pall,
To lie in state while angels wait
  With stars for tapers tall,
And the dark rock-pines like tossing plumes,
  Over his bier to wave,
And God's own hand, in that lonely land,
  To lay him in the grave?

In that strange grave without a name,
  Whence his uncoffin'd clay
Shall break again, O wondrous thought!
  Before the judgment day,
And stand with glory wrapt around
  On the hills he never trod,
And speak of the strife that won our life
  With the Incarnate Son of God.

O lonely grave in Moab's land
  O dark Beth-peor's hill,
Speak to these curious hearts of ours,
  And teach them to be still.
God hath His mysteries of grace,
  Ways that we cannot tell;
He hides them deep like the hidden sleep
  Of him He loved so well.

    _Cecil F. Alexander._

Nobody's Child

Alone in the dreary, pitiless street,
With my torn old dress, and bare, cold feet,
All day have I wandered to and fro,
Hungry and shivering, and nowhere to go;
The night's coming on in darkness and dread,
And the chill sleet beating upon my bare head.
Oh! why does the wind blow upon me so wild?
Is it because I am nobody's child?

Just over the way there's a flood of light,
And warmth, and beauty, and all things bright;
Beautiful children, in robes so fair,
Are caroling songs in their rapture there.
I wonder if they, in their blissful glee,
Would pity a poor little beggar like me,
Wandering alone in the merciless street,
Naked and shivering, and nothing to eat?

Oh! what shall I do when the night comes down
In its terrible blackness all over the town?
Shall I lay me down 'neath the angry sky,
On the cold, hard pavement, alone to die,
When the beautiful children their prayers have said,
And their mammas have tucked them up snugly in bed?
For no dear mother on me ever smiled.
Why is it, I wonder, I'm nobody's child?

No father, no mother, no sister, not one
In all the world loves me--e'en the little dogs run
When I wander too near them; 'tis wondrous to see
How everything shrinks from a beggar like me!
Perhaps 'tis a dream; but sometimes, when I lie
Gazing far up in the dark blue sky,
Watching for hours some large bright star,
I fancy the beautiful gates are ajar,

And a host of white-robed, nameless things
Come fluttering o'er me on gilded wings;
A hand that is strangely soft and fair
Caresses gently my tangled hair,
And a voice like the carol of some wild bird--
The sweetest voice that was ever heard--
Calls me many a dear, pet name,
Till my heart and spirit are all aflame.

They tell me of such unbounded love,
And bid me come to their home above;
And then with such pitiful, sad surprise
They look at me with their sweet, tender eyes,
And it seems to me, out of the dreary night
I am going up to that world of light,
And away from the hunger and storm so wild;
I am sure I shall then be somebody's child.

    _Phila H. Case._

A Christmas Long Ago

Like a dream, it all comes o'er me as I hear the Christmas bells;
Like a dream it floats before me, while the Christmas anthem swells;
Like a dream it bears me onward in the silent, mystic flow,
To a dear old sunny Christmas in the happy long ago.

And my thoughts go backward, backward, and the years that intervene
Are but as the mists and shadows when the sunlight comes between;
And all earthly wealth and splendor seem but as a fleeting show,
As there comes to me the picture of a Christmas long ago.

I can see the great, wide hearthstone and the holly hung about;
I can see the smiling faces, I can hear the children shout;
I can feel the joy and gladness that the old room seem to fill,
E'en the shadows on the ceiling--I can see them dancing still.

I can see the little stockings hung about the chimney yet;
I can feel my young heart thrilling lest the old man should forget.
Ah! that fancy! Were the world mine, I would give it, if I might,
To believe in old St. Nicholas, and be a child to-night.

Just to hang my little stocking where it used to hang, and feel
For one moment all the old thoughts and the old hopes o'er me steal.
But, oh! loved and loving faces, in the firelight's dancing glow,
There will never come another like that Christmas long ago!

For the old home is deserted, and the ashes long have lain
In the great, old-fashioned fireplace that will never shine again.
Friendly hands that then clasped ours now are folded 'neath the snow;
Gone the dear ones who were with us on that Christmas long ago.

Let the children have their Christmas--let them have it while they may;
Life is short and childhood's fleeting, and there'll surely come a day
When St. Nicholas will sadly pass on by the close-shut door,
Missing all the merry faces that had greeted him of yore;

When no childish step shall echo through the quiet, silent room;
When no childish smile shall brighten, and no laughter lift the gloom;
When the shadows that fall 'round us in the fire-light's fitful glow
Shall be ghosts of those who sat there in the Christmas long ago.

Nearer Home

One sweetly solemn thought
  Comes to me o'er and o'er,--
I am nearer home to-day
  Than I've ever been before;--

Nearer my Father's house
  Where the many mansions be,
Nearer the great white throne,
  Nearer the jasper sea;--

Nearer the bound of life
  Where we lay our burdens down;
Nearer leaving the cross,
  Nearer gaining the crown.

But lying darkly between,
  Winding down through the night,
Is the dim and unknown stream
  That leads at last to the light.

Closer and closer my steps
  Come to the dark abysm;
Closer death to my lips
  Presses the awful chrism.

Father, perfect my trust;
  Strengthen the might of my faith;
Let me feel as I would when I stand
  On the rock of the shore of death,--

Feel as I would when my feet
  Are slipping o'er the brink;
For it may be I am nearer home,
  Nearer now than I think.

    _Phoebe Cary._

The Minuet

Grandma told me all about it,
Told me so I could not doubt it,
How she danced, my grandma danced, long ago!
How she held her pretty head,
How her dainty skirts she spread,
How she turned her little toes,
Smiling little human rose!

Grandma's hair was bright and shining,
Dimpled cheeks, too! ah! how funny!
Bless me, now she wears a cap,
My grandma does, and takes a nap every single day;
Yet she danced the minuet long ago;
Now she sits there rocking, rocking,
Always knitting grandpa's stocking--
Every girl was taught to knit long ago--
But her figure is so neat,
And her ways so staid and sweet,
I can almost see her now,
Bending to her partner's bow, long ago.

Grandma says our modern jumping,
Rushing, whirling, dashing, bumping,
Would have shocked the gentle people long ago.
No, they moved with stately grace,
Everything in proper place,
Gliding slowly forward, then
Slowly courtesying back again.

Modern ways are quite alarming, grandma says,
But boys were charming--
Girls and boys I mean, of course--long ago,
Sweetly modest, bravely shy!
What if all of us should try just to feel
Like those who met in the stately minuet, long ago.
With the minuet in fashion,
Who could fly into a passion?
All would wear the calm they wore long ago,
And if in years to come, perchance,
I tell my grandchild of our dance,
I should really like to say,
We did it in some such way, long ago.

    _Mary Mapes Dodge._

The Vagabonds

We are two travellers, Roger and I.
  Roger's my dog--Come here, you scamp!
Jump for the gentleman--mind your eye!
  Over the table--look out for the lamp!--
The rogue is growing a little old;
  Five years we've tramped through wind and weather,
And slept outdoors when nights were cold,
  And ate, and drank--and starved together.

We've learned what comfort is, I tell you:
  A bed on the floor, a bit of rosin,
A fire to thaw our thumbs (poor fellow,
  The paw he holds up there has been frozen),
Plenty of catgut for my fiddle,
  (This outdoor business is bad for strings),
Then a few nice buckwheats hot from the griddle,
  And Roger and I set up for kings!

No, thank you, Sir, I never drink.
  Roger and I are exceedingly moral.
Aren't we, Roger? see him wink.
  Well, something hot then, we won't quarrel.
He's thirsty, too--see him nod his head?
  What a pity, Sir, that dogs can't talk;
He understands every word that's said,
  And he knows good milk from water and chalk.

The truth is, Sir, now I reflect,
  I've been so sadly given to grog,
I wonder I've not lost the respect
  (Here's to you, Sir!) even of my dog.
But he sticks by through thick and thin;
  And this old coat with its empty pockets
And rags that smell of tobacco and gin,
  He'll follow while he has eyes in his sockets.

There isn't another creature living
  Would do it, and prove, through every disaster,
So fond, so faithful, and so forgiving,
  To such a miserable, thankless master.
No, Sir! see him wag his tail and grin--
  By George! it makes my old eyes water--
That is, there's something in this gin
  That chokes a fellow, but no matter!

We'll have some music, if you're willing.
  And Roger (hem! what a plague a cough is, Sir!)
Shall march a little.--Start, you villain!
  Paws up! eyes front! salute your officer!
'Bout face! attention! take your rifle!
  (Some dogs have arms, you see.) Now hold
Your cap while the gentleman gives a trifle
  To aid a poor old patriot soldier!

March! Halt! Now show how the Rebel shakes,
  When he stands up to hear his sentence;
Now tell me how many drams it takes
  To honor a jolly new acquaintance.
Five yelps--that's five; he's mighty knowing;
  The night's before us, fill the glasses;--
Quick, Sir! I'm ill, my brain is going!--
  Some brandy,--thank you;--there,--it passes!

Why not reform? That's easily said;
  But I've gone through such wretched treatment,
Sometimes forgetting the taste of bread,
  And scarce remembering what meat meant,
That my poor stomach's past reform;
  And there are times when, mad with thinking,
I'd sell out heaven for something warm
  To prop a horrible inward sinking.

Is there a way to forget to think?
  At your age, Sir, home, fortune, friends,
A dear girl's love,--but I took to drink;--
  The same old story; you know how it ends.
If you could have seen these classic features,--
  You needn't laugh, Sir; I was not then
Such a burning libel on God's creatures;
  I was one of your handsome men--

If you had seen her, so fair, so young,
  Whose head was happy on this breast;
If you could have heard the songs I sung
  When the wine went round, you wouldn't have guess'd
That ever I, Sir, should be straying
  From door to door, with fiddle and dog,
Ragged and penniless, and playing
  To you to-night for a glass of grog.

She's married since,--a parson's wife,
  'Twas better for her that we should part;
Better the soberest, prosiest life
  Than a blasted home and a broken heart.
I have seen her--once; I was weak and spent
  On the dusty road; a carriage stopped,
But little she dreamed as on she went,
  Who kissed the coin that her fingers dropped.

You've set me talking, Sir; I'm sorry;
  It makes me wild to think of the change!
What do you care for a beggar's story?
  Is it amusing? you find it strange?
I had a mother so proud of me!
  'Twas well she died before--Do you know
If the happy spirits in heaven can see
  The ruin and wretchedness here below?

Another glass, and strong, to deaden
  This pain; then Roger and I will start.
I wonder, has he such a lumpish, leaden,
  Aching thing, in place of a heart?
He is sad sometimes, and would weep, if he could,
  No doubt, remembering things that were,--
A virtuous kennel, with plenty of food,
  And himself a sober, respectable cur.

I'm better now; that glass was warming--
  You rascal! limber your lazy feet!
We must be fiddling and performing
  For supper and bed, or starve in the street.--
Not a very gay life to lead, you think.
  But soon we shall go where lodgings are free,
And the sleepers need neither victuals nor drink;--
  The sooner, the better for Roger and me.

    _J.T. Trowbridge._

The Isle of Long Ago

Oh, a wonderful stream is the river of Time,
  As it runs through the realm of tears,
With a faultless rhythm and a musical rhyme,
And a boundless sweep and a surge sublime,
  As it blends with the ocean of Years.

How the winters are drifting, like flakes of snow,
  And the summers, like buds between;
And the year in the sheaf--so they come and they go,
On the river's breast, with its ebb and flow,
  As it glides in the shadow and sheen.

There's a magical isle up the river of Time,
  Where the softest of airs are playing;
There's a cloudless sky and a tropical clime,
And a song as sweet as a vesper chime,
  And the Junes with the roses are staying.

And the name of that isle is the Long Ago,
  And we bury our treasures there;
There are brows of beauty and bosoms of snow--
There are heaps of dust--but we love them so!--
  There are trinkets and tresses of hair;

There are fragments of song that nobody sings,
  And a part of an infant's prayer,
There's a lute unswept, and a harp without strings;
There are broken vows and pieces of rings,
  And the garments that she used to wear.

There are hands that are waved, when the fairy shore
  By the mirage is lifted in air;
And we sometimes hear, through the turbulent roar,
Sweet voices we heard in the days gone before,
  When the wind down the river is fair.

Oh, remembered for aye be the blessed Isle,
  All the day of our life till night--
When the evening comes with its beautiful smile.
And our eyes are closing to slumber awhile,
  May that "Greenwood" of Soul be in sight!

    _Benjamin Franklin Taylor_.

NOTE: The last line of this poem needs explanation. "Greenwood" is the
name of a cemetery in Brooklyn, N.Y. "Greenwood of Soul" means the
soul's resting place, or heaven.

The Dying Newsboy

In an attic bare and cheerless, Jim the newsboy dying lay
On a rough but clean straw pallet, at the fading of the day;
Scant the furniture about him but bright flowers were in the room,
Crimson phloxes, waxen lilies, roses laden with perfume.
On a table by the bedside open at a well-worn page,
Where the mother had been reading lay a Bible stained by age,
Now he could not hear the verses; he was flighty, and she wept
With her arms around her youngest, who close to her side had crept.

Blacking boots and selling papers, in all weathers day by day,
Brought upon poor Jim consumption, which was eating life away,
And this cry came with his anguish for each breath a struggle cost,
"'Ere's the morning _Sun_ and _'Erald_--latest news of steamship lost.
Papers, mister? Morning papers?" Then the cry fell to a moan,
Which was changed a moment later to another frenzied tone:
"Black yer boots, sir? Just a nickel! Shine 'em like an evening star.
It grows late, Jack! Night is coming. Evening papers, here they are!"

Soon a mission teacher entered, and approached the humble bed;
Then poor Jim's mind cleared an instant, with his cool hand on his head,
"Teacher," cried he, "I remember what you said the other day,
Ma's been reading of the Saviour, and through Him I see my way.
He is with me! Jack, I charge you of our mother take good care
When Jim's gone! Hark! boots or papers, which will I be over there?
Black yer boots, sir? Shine 'em right up! Papers! Read God's book instead,
Better'n papers that to die on! Jack--" one gasp, and Jim was dead!

Floating from that attic chamber came the teacher's voice in prayer,
And it soothed the bitter sorrow of the mourners kneeling there,
He commended them to Heaven, while the tears rolled down his face,
Thanking God that Jim had listened to sweet words of peace and grace,
Ever 'mid the want and squalor of the wretched and the poor,
Kind hearts find a ready welcome, and an always open door;
For the sick are in strange places, mourning hearts are everywhere,
And such need the voice of kindness, need sweet sympathy and prayer.

    _Emily Thornton._

Break, Break, Break

Break, break, break,
  On thy cold gray stones, O sea!
And I would that my tongue could utter
  The thoughts that arise in me.

O well for the fisherman's boy
  That he shouts with his sister at play!
O well for the sailor lad
  That he sings in his boat on the bay!

And the stately ships go on
  To their haven under the hill;
But O for the touch of a vanished hand,
  And the sound of a voice that is still!

Break, break, break,
  At the foot of thy crags, O sea!
But the tender grace of a day that is dead
  Will never come back to me.

    _Alfred Tennyson._

Don't Kill the Birds

Don't kill the birds, the pretty birds,
  That sing about your door,
Soon as the joyous spring has come,
  And chilling storms are o'er.
The little birds, how sweet they sing!
  Oh! let them joyous live;
And never seek to take the life
  That you can never give.

Don't kill the birds, the pretty birds,
  That play among the trees;
'Twould make the earth a cheerless place,
  Should we dispense with these.
The little birds, how fond they play!
  Do not disturb their sport;
But let them warble forth their songs,
  Till winter cuts them short.

Don't kill the birds, the happy birds,
  That bless the fields and grove;
So innocent to look upon,
  They claim our warmest love.
The happy birds, the tuneful birds,
  How pleasant 'tis to see!
No spot can be a cheerless place
  Where'er their presence be.

    _D.C. Colesworthy._

Bill's in the Legislature

I've got a letter, parson, from my son away out West,
An' my old heart is heavy as an anvil in my breast,
To think the boy whose future I had once so nicely planned
Should wander from the right and come to such a bitter end.

I told him when he left us, only three short years ago,
He'd find himself a-plowing in a mighty crooked row;
He'd miss his father's counsel and his mother's prayers, too,
But he said the farm was hateful, an' he guessed he'd have to go.

I know there's big temptations for a youngster in the West,
But I believed our Billy had the courage to resist;
An' when he left I warned him of the ever waitin' snares
That lie like hidden serpents in life's pathway everywheres.

But Bill, he promised faithful to be careful, an' allowed
That he'd build a reputation that'd make us mighty proud.
But it seems as how my counsel sort o' faded from his mind,
And now he's got in trouble of the very worstest kind!

His letters came so seldom that I somehow sort o' knowed
That Billy was a-trampin' of a mighty rocky road;
But never once imagined he would bow my head in shame,
And in the dust would woller his old daddy's honored name.

He writes from out in Denver, an' the story's mighty short--
I jess can't tell his mother!--It'll crush her poor old heart!
An' so I reckoned, parson, you might break the news to her--
Bill's in the Legislature but he doesn't say what fur!

The Bridge Builder

An old man going a lone highway,
Came, at the evening cold and gray,
To a chasm vast and deep and wide,
The old man crossed in the twilight dim,
The sullen stream had no fear for him;
But he turned when safe on the other side
And built a bridge to span the tide.

"Old man," said a fellow pilgrim near,
"You are wasting your strength with building here;
Your journey will end with the ending day,
Yon never again will pass this way;
You've crossed the chasm, deep and wide,
Why build this bridge at evening tide?"

The builder lifted his old gray head;
"Good friend, in the path I have come," he said,
"There followed after me to-day
A youth whose feet must pass this way.
This chasm that has been as naught to me
To that fair-haired youth may a pitfall be;
He, too, must cross in the twilight dim;
Good friend, I am building this bridge for him!"

    _Anonymous._

Song of Marion's Men

Our band is few, but true and tried,
  Our leader frank and bold;
The British soldier trembles
  When Marion's name is told.
Our fortress is the good green wood,
  Our tent the cypress tree;
We know the forest round us
  As seamen know the sea;
We know its walls of thorny vines,
  Its glades of reedy grass,
Its safe and silent islands
  Within the dark morass.

Woe to the English soldiery
  That little dread us near!
On them shall light at midnight
  A strange and sudden fear:
When, waking to their tents on fire,
  They grasp their arms in vain,
And they who stand to face us
  Are beat to earth again;
And they who fly in terror deem
  A mighty host behind,
And hear the tramp of thousands
  Upon the hollow wind.

Then sweet the hour that brings release
  From danger and from toil;
We talk the battle over
  And share the battle's spoil.
The woodland rings with laugh and shout
  As if a hunt were up,
And woodland flowers are gathered
  To crown the soldier's cup.
With merry songs we mock the wind
  That in the pine-top grieves,
And slumber long and sweetly
  On beds of oaken leaves.

Well knows the fair and friendly moon
  The band that Marion leads--
The glitter of their rifles,
  The scampering of their steeds.
'Tis life our fiery barbs to guide
  Across the moonlight plains;
'Tis life to feel the night wind
  That lifts their tossing manes.
A moment in the British camp--
  A moment--and away--
Back to the pathless forest
  Before the peep of day.

Grave men there are by broad Santee,
  Grave men with hoary hairs;
Their hearts are all with Marion,
  For Marion are their prayers.
And lovely ladies greet our band
  With kindliest welcoming,
With smiles like those of summer,
  And tears like those of spring.
For them we wear these trusty arms,
  And lay them down no more
Till we have driven the Briton
  Forever from our shore.

    _William Cullen Bryant._

The Minstrel-Boy

The Minstrel-Boy to the war is gone,
  In the ranks of death you'll find him;
His father's sword he has girded on,
  And his wild harp slung behind him.--
"Land of song!" said the warrior-bard,
  "Though all the world betrays thee,
One sword, at least, thy rights shall guard,
  One faithful harp shall praise thee!"
The Minstrel fell!--but the foeman's chain
  Could not bring his proud soul under;
The harp he loved ne'er spoke again,
  For he tore its chords asunder;
And said, "No chains shall sully thee,
  Thou soul of love and bravery!
Thy songs were made for the pure and free,
  They shall never sound in slavery!"

    _Thomas Moore._

Our Homestead

Our old brown homestead reared its walls,
  From the wayside dust aloof,
Where the apple-boughs could almost cast
  Their fruitage on its roof:
And the cherry-tree so near it grew,
  That when awake I've lain,
In the lonesome nights, I've heard the limbs,
  As they creaked against the pane:
And those orchard trees, O those orchard trees!
  I've seen my little brothers rocked
In their tops by the summer breeze.

The sweet-brier under the window-sill,
  Which the early birds made glad,
And the damask rose by the garden fence
  Were all the flowers we had.
I've looked at many a flower since then,
  Exotics rich and rare,
That to other eyes were lovelier,
  But not to me so fair;
O those roses bright, O those roses bright!
  I have twined them with my sister's locks,
That are hid in the dust from sight!

We had a well, a deep old well,
  Where the spring was never dry,
And the cool drops down from the mossy stones
  Were falling constantly:
And there never was water half so sweet
  As that in my little cup,
Drawn up to the curb by the rude old sweep,
  Which my father's hand set up;
And that deep old well, O that deep old well!
  I remember yet the splashing sound
Of the bucket as it fell.

Our homestead had an ample hearth,
  Where at night we loved to meet;
There my mother's voice was always kind,
  And her smile was always sweet;
And there I've sat on my father's knee,
  And watched his thoughtful brow,
With my childish hand in his raven hair,--
  That hair is silver now!
But that broad hearth's light, O that broad hearth's light!
  And my father's look, and my mother's smile,--
They are in my heart to-night.

    _Phoebe Gary._

The Ballad of the Tempest

We were crowded in the cabin,
  Not a soul would dare to sleep,--
It was midnight on the waters,
  And a storm was on the deep.

'Tis a fearful thing in winter
  To be shattered by the blast,
And to hear the rattling trumpet
  Thunder, "Cut away the mast!"

So we shuddered there in silence,--
  For the stoutest held his breath,
While the hungry sea was roaring
  And the breakers talked with Death.

As thus we sat in darkness,
  Each one busy with his prayers,
"We are lost!" the captain shouted,
  As he staggered down the stairs.

But his little daughter whispered,
  As she took his icy hand,
"Isn't God upon the ocean,
  Just the same as on the land?"

Then we kissed the little maiden,
  And we spoke in better cheer,
And we anchored safe in harbor,
  When the morn was shining clear.

    _James T. Fields._

Santa Filomena

Whene'er a noble deed is wrought,
Whene'er is spoken a noble thought,
Our hearts, in glad surprise,
To higher levels rise.

The tidal wave of deeper souls
Into our inmost being rolls
And lifts us unawares
Out of all meaner cares.

Honor to those whose words or deeds
Thus help us in our daily needs,
And by their overflow,
Raise us from what is low!

Thus thought I, as by night I read
Of the great army of the dead,
The trenches cold and damp,
The starved and frozen camp,--

The wounded from the battle-plain,
In dreary hospitals of pain,
The cheerless corridors,
The cold and stony floors.

Lo! in that house of misery
A lady with a lamp I see
Pass through the glimmering gloom,
And flit from room to room.

And slow, as in a dream of bliss,
The speechless sufferer turns to kiss
Her shadow, as it falls
Upon the darkening walls.

As if a door in heaven should be
Opened and then closed suddenly,
The vision came and went,
The light shone and was spent.

On England's annals, through the long
Hereafter of her speech and song,
That light its rays shall cast
From portals of the past.

A lady with a lamp shall stand
In the great history of the land
A noble type of good,
Heroic Womanhood.

Nor even shall be wanting here
The palm, the lily, and the spear,
The symbols that of yore
Saint Filomena bore.

    _Henry W. Longfellow._

The Knight's Toast

The feast is o'er! Now brimming wine
In lordly cup is seen to shine
  Before each eager guest;
And silence fills the crowded hall,
As deep as when the herald's call
  Thrills in the loyal breast.

Then up arose the noble host,
And, smiling, cried: "A toast! a toast!
  To all our ladies fair!
Here before all, I pledge the name
Of Staunton's proud and beauteous dame,
  The Ladye Gundamere!"

Then to his feet each gallant sprung,
And joyous was the shout that rung,
  As Stanley gave the word;
And every cup was raised on high,
Nor ceased the loud and gladsome cry
  Till Stanley's voice was heard.

"Enough, enough," he, smiling, said,
And lowly bent his haughty head;
  "That all may have their due,
Now each in turn must play his part,
And pledge the lady of his heart,
  Like gallant knight and true!"

Then one by one each guest sprang up,
And drained in turn the brimming cup,
  And named the loved one's name;
And each, as hand on high he raised,
His lady's grace or beauty praised,
  Her constancy and fame.

'Tis now St. Leon's turn to rise;
On him are fixed those countless eyes;--
  A gallant knight is he;
Envied by some, admired by all,
Far famed in lady's bower and hall,--
  The flower of chivalry.

St. Leon raised his kindling eye,
And lifts the sparkling cup on high:
  "I drink to one," he said,
"Whose image never may depart,
Deep graven on this grateful heart,
  Till memory be dead.

"To one, whose love for me shall last
When lighter passions long have past,--
  So holy 'tis and true;
To one, whose love hath longer dwelt,
More deeply fixed, more keenly felt,
  Than any pledged by you."

Each guest upstarted at the word,
And laid a hand upon his sword,
  With fury flashing eye;
And Stanley said: "We crave the name,
Proud knight, of this most peerless dame,
  Whose love you count so high."

St. Leon paused, as if he would
Not breathe her name in careless mood,
  Thus lightly to another;
Then bent his noble head, as though
To give that word the reverence due,
  And gently said: "My Mother!"

    _Sir Walter Scott._

The Old Man Dreams

O for one hour of youthful joy!
  Give back my twentieth spring!
I'd rather laugh a bright-haired boy
  Than reign a gray-beard king;

Off with the spoils of wrinkled age!
  Away with learning's crown!
Tear out life's wisdom-written page,
  And dash its trophies down!

One moment let my life-blood stream
  From boyhood's fount of flame!
Give me one giddy, reeling dream
  Of life all love and fame!

My listening angel heard the prayer,
  And, calmly smiling, said,
"If I but touch thy silvered hair,
  Thy hasty wish hath sped.

"But is there nothing in thy track
  To bid thee fondly stay,
While the swift seasons hurry back
  To find the wished-for day?"

Ah! truest soul of womankind!
  Without thee what were life?
One bliss I cannot leave behind:
  I'll take--my--precious--wife!

The angel took a sapphire pen
  And wrote in rainbow dew,
"The man would be a boy again,
  And be a husband, too!"

"And is there nothing yet unsaid
  Before the change appears?
Remember, all their gifts have fled
  With those dissolving years!"

"Why, yes; for memory would recall
  My fond paternal joys;
I could not bear to leave them all:
  I'll take--my--girl--and--boys!"

The smiling angel dropped his pen--
  "Why, this will never do;
The man would be a boy again,
  And be a father too!"

And so I laughed--my laughter woke
  The household with its noise--
And wrote my dream, when morning broke,
  To please the gray-haired boys.

    _Oliver Wendell Holmes._

Washington's Birthday

The bells of Mount Vernon are ringing to-day,
  And what say their melodious numbers
To the flag blooming air? List, what do they say?
  "The fame of the hero ne'er slumbers!"

The world's monument stands the Potomac beside,
  And what says the shaft to the river?
"When the hero has lived for his country, and died,
  Death crowns him a hero forever."

The bards crown the heroes and children rehearse
  The songs that give heroes to story,
And what say the bards to the children? "No verse
  Can yet measure Washington's glory.

"For Freedom outlives the old crowns of the earth,
  And Freedom shall triumph forever,
And Time must long wait the true song of his birth
  Who sleeps by the beautiful river."

    _Hezekiah Butterworth._

April! April! Are You Here?

April! April! are you here?
  Oh, how fresh the wind is blowing!
See! the sky is bright and clear,
  Oh, how green the grass is growing!
April! April! are you here?

April! April! is it you?
  See how fair the flowers are springing!
Sun is warm and brooks are clear,
  Oh, how glad the birds are singing!
April! April! is it you?

April! April! you are here!
  Though your smiling turn to weeping,
Though your skies grow cold and drear,
  Though your gentle winds are sleeping,
April! April! you are here!

    _Dora Read Goodale._

A Laughing Chorus

Oh, such a commotion under the ground
  When March called, "Ho, there! ho!"
Such spreading of rootlets far and wide,
  Such whispering to and fro;
And, "Are you ready?" the Snowdrop asked,
  "'Tis time to start, you know."
"Almost, my dear," the Scilla replied;
  "I'll follow as soon as you go."
Then, "Ha! ha! ha!" a chorus came
  Of laughter soft and low,
From the millions of flowers under the ground,
  Yes--millions--beginning to grow.

O, the pretty brave things! through the coldest days,
  Imprisoned in walls of brown,
They never lost heart though the blast shrieked loud,
  And the sleet and the hail came down,

But patiently each wrought her beautiful dress,
  Or fashioned her beautiful crown;
And now they are coming to brighten the world,
  Still shadowed by Winter's frown;
And well may they cheerily laugh, "Ha! ha!"
  In a chorus soft and low,
The millions of flowers hid under the ground
  Yes--millions--beginning to grow.

The Courtin'

God makes sech nights, all white an' still
  Fur 'z you can look or listen,
Moonshine an' snow on field an' hill,
  All silence an' all glisten.

Zekle crep' up quite unbeknown
  An' peeked in thru the winder.
An' there sot Huldy all alone,
  'ith no one nigh to hender.

A fireplace filled the room's one side
  With half a cord o' wood in--
There warn't no stoves (tell comfort died)
  To bake ye to a puddin'.

The wa'nut logs shot sparkles out
  Towards the pootiest, bless her,
An' leetle flames danced all about
  The chiny on the dresser.

Agin the chimbley crook-necks hung,
  An' in amongst 'em rusted
The ole queen's-arm thet gran'ther Young
  Fetched back from Concord busted.

The very room, coz she was in,
  Seemed warm from floor to ceilin',
An' she looked full ez rosy agin
  Ez the apples she was peelin'.

'Twas kin' o' kingdom-come to look
  On sech a blessed cretur,
A dogrose blushin' to a brook
  Ain't modester nor sweeter.

He was six foot o' man, A 1,
  Clear grit an' human natur';
None couldn't quicker pitch a ton
  Nor dror a furrer straighter,

He'd sparked it with full twenty gals,
  Hed squired 'em, danced 'em, druv 'em,
Fust this one, an' then thet, by spells--
  All is, he couldn't love 'em,

But long o' her his veins 'ould run
  All crinkly like curled maple,
The side she breshed felt full o' sun
  Ez a south slope in Ap'il.

She thought no v'ice hed sech a swing
  Ez hisn in the choir;
My! when he made Ole Hunderd ring,
  She _knowed_ the Lord was nigher.

An' she'd blush scarlet, right in prayer,
  When her new meetin'-bunnit
Felt somehow thru its crown a pair
  O' blue eyes sot upun it.

Thet night, I tell ye, she looked _some!_
  She seemed to 've gut a new soul,
For she felt sartin-sure he'd come,
  Down to her very shoe-sole.

She heered a foot, an' knowed it tu,
  A-raspin' on the scraper,--
All ways to once her feelin's flew
  Like sparks in burnt-up paper.

He kin' o' l'itered on the mat,
  Some doubtfle o' the sekle,
His heart kep' goin' pity-pat,
  But hern went pity Zekle.

An' yit she gin her cheer a jerk
  Ez though she wished him furder,
An' on her apples kep' to work,
  Parin' away like murder.

"You want to see my Pa, I s'pose?"
  "Wal--no--I come dasignin'"--
"To see my Ma? She's sprinklin' clo'es
  Agin to-morrer's i'nin'."

To say why gals acts so or so,
  Or don't, 'ould be presumin';
Mebby to mean _yes_ an' say _no_
  Comes nateral to women.

He stood a spell on one foot fust,
  Then stood a spell on t'other,
An' on which one he felt the wust
  He couldn't ha' told ye nuther.

Says he, "I'd better call agin";
  Says she, "Think likely, Mister";
Thet last work pricked him like a pin,
  An'--Wal, he up an' kist her.

When Ma bimeby upon 'em slips,
  Huldy sot pale ez ashes,
All kin' o' smily roun' the lips
  An' teary roun' the lashes.

For she was jes' the quiet kind
  Whose naturs never vary,
Like streams that keep a summer mind
  Snowhid in Jenooary.

The blood clost roun' her heart felt glued
  Too tight for all expressin',
Tell mother see how metters stood,
  An' gin 'em both her blessin'.

Then her red come back like the tide
  Down to the Bay o' Fundy.
An' all I know is they was cried
  In meetin' come nex' Sunday.

    _James Russell Lowell._

An Old Man's Dreams

 It was the twilight hour;
Behind the western hill the sun had sunk,
Leaving the evening sky aglow with crimson light.
The air is filled with fragrance and with sound;
High in the tops of shadowy vine-wreathed trees,
Grave parent-birds were twittering good-night songs,
To still their restless brood.
  Across the way
A noisy little brook made pleasant
Music on the summer air,
And farther on, the sweet, faint sound
Of Whippoorwill Falls rose on the air, and fell
Like some sweet chant at vespers.
  The air is heavy
With the scent of mignonette and rose,
And from the beds of flowers the tall
White lilies point like angel fingers upward,
Casting on the air an incense sweet,
That brings to mind the old, old story
Of the alabaster box that loving Mary
Broke upon the Master's feet.

  Upon his vine-wreathed porch
An old white-headed man sits dreaming
Happy, happy dreams of days that are no more;
And listening to the quaint old song
With which his daughter lulled her child to rest:

    "Abide with me," she says;
      "Fast falls the eventide;
    The darkness deepens,--
      Lord, with me abide."

And as he listens to the sounds that fill the
Summer air, sweet, dreamy thoughts
Of his "lost youth" come crowding thickly up;
And, for a while, he seems a boy again.
  With feet all bare
He wades the rippling brook, and with a boyish shout
Gathers the violets blue, and nodding ferns,
That wave a welcome from the other side.
  With those he wreathes
The sunny head of little Nell, a neighbor's child,
Companion of his sorrows and his joys.
Sweet, dainty Nell, whose baby life
Seemed early linked with his,
And whom he loved with all a boy's devotion.

  Long years have flown.
No longer boy and girl, but man and woman grown,
They stand again beside the brook, that murmurs
Ever in its course, nor stays for time nor man,
And tell the old, old story,
And promise to be true till life for them shall end.

  Again the years roll on,
And they are old. The frost of age
Has touched the once-brown hair,
And left it white as are the chaliced lilies.
Children, whose rosy lips once claimed
A father's blessing and a mother's love,
Have grown to man's estate, save two
Whom God called early home to wait
For them in heaven.

  And then the old man thinks
How on a night like this, when faint
And sweet as half-remembered dreams
Old Whippoorwill Falls did murmur soft
Its evening psalms, when fragrant lilies
Pointed up the way her Christ had gone,
God called the wife and mother home,
And bade him wait.
  Oh! why is it so hard for
Man to wait? to sit with folded hands,
Apart, amid the busy throng,
And hear the buzz and hum of toil around;
To see men reap and bind the golden sheaves
Of earthly fruits, while he looks idly on,
And knows he may not join,
But only wait till God has said, "Enough!"
  And calls him home!

And thus the old man dreams,
And then awakes; awakes to hear
The sweet old song just dying
On the pulsing evening air:

    "When other helpers fail,
      And comforts flee,
    Lord of the helpless,
      Oh, abide with me!"

    _Eliza M. Sherman._

God's Message to Men

God said: I am tired of kings;
  I suffer them no more;
Up to my ear the morning brings
  The outrage of the poor.

Think ye I have made this ball
  A field of havoc and war,
Where tyrants great and tyrants small
  Might harry the weak and poor?

My angel--his name is Freedom--
  Choose him to be your king.
He shall cut pathways east and west
  And fend you with his wing.

I will never have a noble;
  No lineage counted great,
Fishers and choppers and plowmen
  Shall constitute a state,

And ye shall succor man,
  'Tis nobleness to serve;
Help them who cannot help again;
  Beware from right to swerve.

    _Ralph Waldo Emerson._

The Sandman

The rosy clouds float overhead,
  The sun is going down,
And now the Sandman's gentle tread
  Comes stealing through the town.
"White sand, white sand," he softly cries,
  And, as he shakes his hand,
Straightway there lies on babies' eyes
  His gift of shining sand.
Blue eyes, gray eyes, black eyes and brown,
As shuts the rose, they softly close,
  when he goes through the town.

From sunny beaches far away,
  Yes, in another land,
He gathers up, at break of day,
  His store of shining sand.
No tempests beat that shore remote,
  No ships may sail that way;
His little boat alone may float
  Within that lovely bay.
Blue eyes, gray eyes, black eyes and brown,
As shuts the rose, they softly close,
  when he goes through the town.

He smiles to see the eyelids close
  Above the happy eyes,
And every child right well he knows--
  Oh, he is very wise!
But if, as he goes through the land,
  A naughty baby cries,
His other hand takes dull gray sand
  To close the wakeful eyes.
Blue eyes, gray eyes, black eyes and brown,
As shuts the rose, they softly close,
  when he goes through the town.

So when you hear the Sandman's song
  Sound through the twilight sweet,
Be sure you do not keep him long
  A-waiting in the street.
Lie softly down, dear little head,
  Rest quiet, busy hands,
Till by your bed when good-night's said,
  He strews the shining sands.
Blue eyes, gray eyes, black eyes and brown,
As shuts the rose, they softly close,
  when he goes through the town.

    _Margaret Vandegrift._

Ring Out, Wild Bells

Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky,
  The flying cloud, the frosty light:
  The year is dying in the night;
Ring out, wild bells, and let him die.

Ring out the old, ring in the new,
  Ring, happy bells, across the snow:
  The year is going, let him go;
Ring out the false, ring in the true.

Ring out the grief that saps the mind,
  For those that here we see no more;
  Ring out the feud of rich and poor,
Ring in redress to all mankind.

Ring out a slowly dying cause,
  And ancient forms of party strife;
  Ring in the nobler modes of life,
With sweeter manners, purer laws.

Ring out false pride in place and blood,
  The civic slander and the spite;
  Ring in the love of truth and right,
Ring in the common love of good.

Ring out old shapes of foul disease;
  Ring out the narrowing lust of gold;
  Ring out the thousand wars of old,
Ring in the thousand years of peace.

Ring in the valiant man and free,
  The larger heart, the kindlier hand;
  Ring out the darkness of the land,
Ring in the Christ that is to be.

    _Alfred, Lord Tennyson._

The Wishing Bridge

Among the legends sung or said
  Along our rocky shore,
The Wishing Bridge of Marblehead
  May well be sung once more.

An hundred years ago (so ran
  The old-time story) all
Good wishes said above its span
  Would, soon or late, befall.

If pure and earnest, never failed
  The prayers of man or maid
For him who on the deep sea sailed,
  For her at home who stayed.

Once thither came two girls from school
  And wished in childish glee:
And one would be a queen and rule,
  And one the world would see.

Time passed; with change of hopes and fears
  And in the selfsame place,
Two women, gray with middle years,
  Stood wondering, face to face.

With wakened memories, as they met,
  They queried what had been:
"A poor man's wife am I, and yet,"
  Said one, "I am a queen.

"My realm a little homestead is,
  Where, lacking crown and throne,
I rule by loving services
  And patient toil alone."

The other said: "The great world lies
  Beyond me as it laid;
O'er love's and duty's boundaries
  My feet have never strayed.

"I see but common sights at home,
  Its common sounds I hear,
My widowed mother's sick-bed room
  Sufficeth for my sphere.

"I read to her some pleasant page
  Of travel far and wide,
And in a dreamy pilgrimage
  We wander side by side.

"And when, at last, she falls asleep,
  My book becomes to me
A magic glass: my watch I keep,
  But all the world I see.

"A farm-wife queen your place you fill,
  While fancy's privilege
Is mine to walk the earth at will,
  Thanks to the Wishing Bridge."

"Nay, leave the legend for the truth,"
  The other cried, "and say
God gives the wishes of our youth
  But in His own best way!"

    _John Greenleaf Whittier._

The Things Divine

These are the things I hold divine:
A trusting chi id's hand laid in mine,
Rich brown earth and wind-tossed trees,
The taste of grapes and the drone of bees,
A rhythmic gallop, long June days,
A rose-hedged lane and lovers' lays,
The welcome smile on neighbors' faces,
Cool, wide hills and open places,
Breeze-blown fields of silver rye,
The wild, sweet note of the plover's cry,
Fresh spring showers and scent of box,
The soft, pale tint of the garden phlox,
Lilacs blooming, a drowsy noon,
A flight of geese and an autumn moon,
Rolling meadows and storm-washed heights,
A fountain murmur on summer nights,
A dappled fawn in the forest hush,
Simple words and the song of a thrush,
Rose-red dawns and a mate to share
With comrade soul my gypsy fare,
A waiting fire when the twilight ends,
A gallant heart and the voice of friends.

    _Jean Brooks Burt._

Mothers of Men

The bravest battle that ever was fought!
  Shall I tell you where and when?
On the map of the world you will find it not,
  'Twas fought by the mothers of men.

Nay, not with cannon or battle shot,
  With sword or nobler pen,
Nay, not with eloquent words or thought
  From mouths of wonderful men;

But deep in the walled-up woman's heart--
  Of woman that would not yield,
But bravely, silently, bore her part--
  Lo, there is that battle field!

No marshaling troup, no bivouac song,
  No banner to gleam or wave,
But oh! these battles, they last so long--
  From babyhood to the grave.

Yet, faithful as a bridge of stars,
  She fights in her walled-up town--
Fights on and on in the endless wars,
  Then, silent, unseen, goes down.

Oh, ye with banner and battle shot,
  And soldiers to shout and praise,
I tell you the kingliest victories fought
  Were fought in those silent ways.

Oh, spotless in a world of shame,
  With splendid and silent scorn,
Go back to God as white as you came--
  The kingliest warrior born!

    _Joaquin Miller._

Echo

"I asked of Echo, t'other day
  (Whose words are often few and funny),
What to a novice she could say
  Of courtship, love and matrimony.
  Quoth Echo plainly,--'Matter-o'-money!'

"Whom should I marry? Should it be
  A dashing damsel, gay and pert,
A pattern of inconstancy;
  Or selfish, mercenary flirt?
  Quoth Echo, sharply,--'Nary flirt!'

"What if, aweary of the strife
  That long has lured the dear deceiver,
She promise to amend her life.
  And sin no more; can I believe her?
  Quoth Echo, very promptly;--'Leave her!'

"But if some maiden with a heart
  On me should venture to bestow it,
Pray should I act the wiser part
  To take the treasure or forgo it?
  Quoth Echo, with decision,--'Go it!'

"But what if, seemingly afraid
  To bind her fate in Hymen's fetter,
She vow she means to die a maid,
  In answer to my loving letter?
  Quoth Echo, rather coolly,--'Let her!'

"What if, in spite of her disdain,
  I find my heart entwined about
With Cupid's dear, delicious chain
  So closely that I can't get out?
  Quoth Echo, laughingly,--'Get out!'

"But if some maid with beauty blest,
  As pure and fair as Heaven can make her,
Will share my labor and my rest
  Till envious Death shall overtake her?
Quoth Echo (sotto voce),-'Take her!'"

    _John G. Saxe._

Life, I Know Not What Thou Art

Life! I know not what thou art,
But know that thou and I must part;
And when, or how, or where we met
I own to me's a secret yet.

Life! we've been long together
Through pleasant and through cloudy weather;
'Tis hard to part when friends are dear--
Perhaps 'twill cost a sigh, a tear;

Then steal away; give little warning,
Choose thine own time;
Say not Good Night, but in some brighter clime
Bid me Good Morning.

    _Anna L. Barbauld._

Autumn Leaves

In the hush and the lonely silence
  Of the chill October night,
Some wizard has worked his magic
  With fairy fingers light.

The leaves of the sturdy oak trees
  Are splendid with crimson and red.
And the golden flags of the maple
  Are fluttering overhead.

Through the tangle of faded grasses
  There are trailing vines ablaze,
And the glory of warmth and color
  Gleams through the autumn haze.

Like banners of marching armies
  That farther and farther go;
Down the winding roads and valleys
  The boughs of the sumacs glow.

So open your eyes, little children,
  And open your hearts as well,
Till the charm of the bright October
  Shall fold you in its spell.

    _Angelina Wray._

A Message for the Year

Not who you are, but what you are,
  That's what the world demands to know;
Just what you are, what you can do
  To help mankind to live and grow.
Your lineage matters not at all,
  Nor counts one whit your gold or gear,
What can you do to show the world
  The reason for your being here?

For just what space you occupy
  The world requires you pay the rent;
It does not shower its gifts galore,
  Its benefits are only lent;
And it has need of workers true,
  Willing of hand, alert of brain;
Go forth and prove what you can do,
  Nor wait to count o'er loss or gain.

Give of your best to help and cheer,
 The more you give the more you grow;
This message evermore rings true,
  In time you reap whate'er you sow.
No failure you have need to fear,
  Except to fail to do your best--
What have you done, what can you do?
  That is the question, that the test.

    _Elizabeth Clarke Hardy._

  Out of the hills of Habersham,
  Down the valleys of Hall,
I hurry amain to reach the plain,
Run the rapid and leap the fall,
Split at the rock and together again,
Accept my bed, or narrow or wide,
And flee from folly on every side
With a lover's pain to attain the plain
  Far from the hills of Habersham,
  Far from the valleys of Hall.

  All down the hills of Habersham,
  All through the valleys of Hall,
The rushes cried "Abide, abide,"
The wilful waterweeds held me thrall,
The laving laurel turned my tide,
The ferns and the fondling grass said "Stay,"
The dewberry dipped for to work delay,
And the little reeds sighed "Abide, abide
  Here in the hills of Habersham,
  Here in the valleys of Hall."

  High o'er the hills of Habersham,
  Veiling the valleys of Hall,
The hickory told me manifold
Fair tales of shade, the poplar tall
Wrought me her shadowy self to hold,
The chestnut, the oak, the walnut, the pine,
O'erleaning, with flickering meaning and sign,
Said, "Pass not, so cold, these manifold
  Deep shades of the hills of Habersham,
  These glades in the valleys of Hall."

  And oft in the hills of Habersham,
  And oft in the valleys of Hall,
The white quartz shone, and the smooth brookstone
Did bar me of passage with friendly brawl,
And many a luminous jewel lone
--Crystals clear or a-cloud with mist,
Ruby, garnet, and amethyst--
Made lures with the lights of streaming stone,
  In the clefts of the hills of Habersham,
  In the beds of the valleys of Hall.

  But oh, not the hills of Habersham,
  And oh, not the valleys of Hall
Avail: I am fain for to water the plain.
Downward the voices of Duty call--
Downward, to toil and be mixed with the main.
The dry fields burn, and the mills are to turn,
And a myriad flowers mortally yearn,
And the lordly main from beyond the plain
  Calls o'er the hills of Habersham,
  Calls through the valleys of Hall.

    _Sidney Lanier._

[Footnote *: Used by special permission of the publishers, Charles

Courting in Kentucky

When Mary Ann Dollinger got the skule daown thar on Injun Bay
I was glad, fer I like ter see a gal makin' her honest way,
I heerd some talk in the village abaout her flyin' high,
Tew high for busy farmer folks with chores ter dew ter fly;
But I paid no sorter attention ter all the talk ontell
She come in her reg-lar boardin' raound ter visit with us a spell.
My Jake an' her has been cronies ever since they could walk,
An' it tuk me aback ter hear her kerrectin' him in his talk.

Jake ain't no hand at grammar, though he hain't his beat for work;
But I sez ter myself, "Look out, my gal, yer a-foolin' with a Turk!"
Jake bore it wonderful patient, an' said in a mournful way,
He p'sumed he was behindhand with the doin's at Injun Bay.
I remember once he was askin' for some o' my Injun buns,
An' she said he should allus say, "them air," stid o' "them is" the ones.
Wal, Mary Ann kep' at him stiddy mornin' an' evenin' long,
Tell he dassent open his mouth for fear o' talkin' wrong.

One day I was pickin' currants down by the old quince tree,
When I heerd Jake's voice a-sayin', "Be ye willin' ter marry me?"
An' Mary Ann kerrectin', "Air ye willin', yeou sh'd say."
Our Jake he put his foot daown in a plum decided way.
"No wimmen-folks is a-goin' ter be rearrangin' me,
Hereafter I says 'craps,' 'them is,' 'I calk'late,' an' 'I be.'
Ef folks don't like my talk they needn't hark ter what I say;
But I ain't a-goin' to take no sass from folks from Injun Bay;
I ask you free an' final, 'Be ye goin' to marry me?'"
An' Mary Ann sez, tremblin', yet anxious-like, "I be."

God's Will is Best

Whichever way the wind doth blow,
Some heart is glad to have it so;
Then blow it east, or blow it west,
The wind that blows, that wind is best.
My little craft sails not alone,--
A thousand fleets, from every zone,
Are out upon a thousand seas,
And what for me were favoring breeze
Might dash another with the shock
Of doom upon some hidden rock.

I leave it to a higher Will
To stay or speed me, trusting still
That all is well, and sure that He
Who launched my bark will sail with me
Through storm and calm, and will not fail,
Whatever breezes may prevail,
To land me, every peril past,
Within His Haven at the last.
Then blow it east, or blow it west,
The wind that blows, that wind is best.

    _Caroline H. Mason._

The School-Master's Guests

I

The district school-master was sitting behind his great book-laden desk,
Close-watching the motions of scholars, pathetic and gay and grotesque.
As whisper the half-leafless branches, when autumn's brisk breezes have
      come,
His little scrub-thicket of pupils sent upward a half-smothered hum.
There was little Tom Timms on the front seat, whose face was withstanding
      a drouth.
And jolly Jack Gibbs just behind him, with a rainy new moon for a mouth;
There were both of the Smith boys, as studious as if they bore names that
      could bloom,
And Jim Jones, a heaven-built mechanic, the slyest young knave in the room,
With a countenance grave as a horse's, and his honest eyes fixed on a pin,
Queer-bent on a deeply-laid project to tunnel Joe Hawkins's skin.
There were anxious young novices, drilling their spelling-books into their
      brain,
Loud-puffing each half-whispered letter, like an engine just starting its
      train;
There was one fiercely muscular fellow, who scowled at the sums on his
      slate,
And leered at the innocent figures a look of unspeakable hate;
And set his white teeth close together, and gave his thin lips a short
      twist,
As to say, "I could whip you, confound you! could such things be done with
      the fist!"
There were two knowing girls in the corner, each one with some beauty
      possessed,
In a whisper discussing the problem which one the young master likes best;
A class in the front, with their readers, were telling, with difficult
      pains,
How perished brave Marco Bozzaris while bleeding at all of his veins;
And a boy on the floor to be punished, a statue of idleness stood,
Making faces at all of the others, and enjoying the scene all he could.

II

Around were the walls, gray and dingy, which every old school-sanctum hath,
With many a break on their surface, where grinned a wood-grating of lath.
A patch of thick plaster, just over the school-master's rickety chair,
Seemed threat'ningly o'er him suspended, like Damocles' sword, by a hair.
There were tracks on the desks where the knife-blades had wandered in
      search of their prey;
Their tops were as duskily spattered as if they drank ink every day.
The square stove it puffed and it crackled, and broke out in red flaming
      sores,
Till the great iron quadruped trembled like a dog fierce to rush
      out-o'-doors.
White snowflakes looked in at the windows; the gale pressed its lips to the
      cracks;
And the children's hot faces were streaming, the while they were freezing
      their backs.

III

Now Marco Bozzaris had fallen, and all of his suff'rings were o'er,
And the class to their seats were retreating, when footsteps were heard
      at the door;
And five of the good district fathers marched into the room in a row,
And stood themselves up by the fire, and shook off their white cloaks of
      snow.
And the spokesman, a grave squire of sixty, with countenance solemnly sad,
Spoke thus, while the children all listened, with all of the ears that
      they had:
"We've come here, school-master, in-tendin' to cast an inquirin' eye
      'round,
Concernin' complaints that's been entered, an' fault that has lately been
      found;
To pace off the width of your doin's, an' witness what you've been about,
An' see if it's paying to keep you, or whether we'd best turn ye out.

"The first thing I'm bid for to mention is, when the class gets up to read
You give 'em too tight of a reinin', an' touch 'em up more than they need;
You're nicer than wise in the matter of holdin' the book in one han',
An' you turn a stray _g_ in their _doin's_, an' tack an odd _d_
      on their _an'_;
There ain't no great good comes of speakin' the words so polite, as I see,
Providin' you know what the facts is, an' tell 'em off jest as they be.
An' then there's that readin' in corncert, is censured from first unto
      last;
It kicks up a heap of a racket, when folks is a-travelin' past.
Whatever is done as to readin', providin' things go to my say,
Shan't hang on no new-fangled hinges, but swing in the old-fashioned way."
And the other four good district fathers gave quick the consent that was
      due,
And nodded obliquely, and muttered: "Them 'ere is my sentiments tew."
"Then as to your spellin': I've heern tell, by the mas has looked into
      this,
That you turn the _u_ out o' your _labour_, an' make the word shorter
      than 'tis;
An' clip the _k_ off yer _musick_, which makes my son Ephraim perplexed,
An' when he spells out as he ought'r, you pass the word on to the next.
They say there's some new-grafted books here that don't take them letters
      along;
But if it is so, just depend on 't, them new-grafted books is made wrong.
You might just as well say that Jackson didn't know all there was about
      war,
As to say that old Spellin'-book Webster didn't know what them letters was
      for."
And the other four good district fathers gave quick the consent that was
      due,
And scratched their heads slyly and softly, and said: "Them's my sentiments
      tew."
"Then, also, your 'rithmetic doin's, as they are reported to me,
Is that you have left Tare an' Tret out, an' also the old Rule o' Three;
An' likewise brought in a new study, some high-steppin' scholars to please,
With saw-bucks an' crosses and pothooks, an' _w's, x's, y's_ an' _z's_.
We ain't got no time for such foolin'; there ain't no great good to be
      reached
By tiptoein' childr'n up higher than ever their fathers was teached."
And the other four good district fathers gave quick the consent that was
      due,
And cocked one eye up to the ceiling, and said: "Them's my sentiments tew."
"Another thing, I must here mention, comes into the question to-day,
Concernin' some things in the grammar you're teachin' our gals for to say.
My gals is as steady as clockwork, and never give cause for much fear,
But they come home from school t'other evenin' a-talking such stuff as this
      here:
'I love,' an' 'Thou lovest,' an' 'He loves,' an' 'We love,' an' 'You love,'
      an' 'They--'
An' they answered my questions: 'It's grammar'--'twas all I could get 'em
      to say.
Now if, 'stead of doin' your duty, you're carryin' matters on so
As to make the gals say that they love you, it's just all that I want to
      know."

IV

Now Jim, the young heaven-built mechanic, in the dusk of the evening
      before,
Had well-nigh unjointed the stovepipe, to make it come down on the floor;
And the squire bringing smartly his foot down, as a clincher to what he had
      said,
A joint of the pipe fell upon him, and larruped him square on the head.
The soot flew in clouds all about him, and blotted with black all the place
And the squire and the other four fathers were peppered with black in the
      face.
The school, ever sharp for amusement, laid down all their cumbersome books
And, spite of the teacher's endeavors, laughed loud at their visitors'
      looks.
And the squire, as he stalked to the doorway, swore oaths of a violet hue;
And the four district fathers, who followed, seemed to say: "Them's my
      sentiments tew."

    _Will Carleton._

Mother o' Mine

If I were hanged on the highest hill,
  Mother o' mine!
  Oh, mother o' mine!
I know whose love would follow me still;
  Mother o' mine!
  Oh, mother o' mine!

If I were drowned in the deepest sea,
  Mother o' mine!
  Oh, mother o' mine!
I know whose tears would flow down to me,
  Mother o' mine!
  Oh, mother o' mine!

If I were damned o' body and soul,
  Mother o' mine!
  Oh, mother o' mine!
I know whose prayers would make me whole,
  Mother o' mine!
  Oh, mother o' mine!

    _Rudyard Kipling._

Encouragement

Who dat knockin' at de do'?
Why, Ike Johnson--yes, fu' sho'!
Come in, Ike. I's mighty glad
You come down. I t'ought you's mad
At me 'bout de othah night,
An' was stayin' 'way fu' spite.
Say, now, was you mad fu' true
W'en I kin' o' laughed at you?
  Speak up, Ike, an' 'spress yo'se'f.

'Tain't no use a-lookin' sad,
An' a-mekin' out you's mad;
Ef you's gwine to be so glum,
Wondah why you evah come.
I don't lak nobidy 'roun'
Dat jes' shet dey mouf an' frown--
Oh, now, man, don't act a dunce!
Cain't you talk? I tol' you once,
  Speak up, Ike, an' 'spress yo'se'f.

Wha'd you come hyeah fu' to-night?
Body'd t'ink yo' haid ain't right.
I's done all dat I kin do--
Dressed perticler, jes' fu' you;
Reckon I'd a' bettah wo'
My ol' ragged calico.
Aftah all de pains I's took,
Cain't you tell me how I look?
  Speak up, Ike, an' 'spress yo'se'f.

Bless my soul! I 'mos' fu'got
Tellin' you 'bout Tildy Scott.
Don't you know, come Thu'sday night,
She gwine ma'y Lucius White?
Miss Lize say I allus wuh
Heap sight laklier 'n huh;
An' she'll git me somep'n new,
Ef I wants to ma'y too.
  Speak up, Ike, an' 'spress yo'se'f.

I could ma'y in a week,
If de man I wants 'ud speak.
Tildy's presents 'll be fine,
But dey wouldn't ekal mine.
Him whut gits me fu' a wife
'll be proud, you bet yo' life.
I's had offers, some ain't quit;
But I hasn't ma'ied yit!
  Speak up, Ike, an' 'spress yo'se'f.

Ike, I loves you--yes, I does;
You's my choice, and allus was.
Laffin' at you ain't no harm--
Go 'way, dahky, whah's yo' arm?
Hug me closer--dah, da's right!
Wasn't you a awful sight,
Havin' me to baig you so?
Now ax whut you want to know--
  Speak up, Ike, an' 'spress yo'se'f.

    _Paul Laurence Dunbar._

The Harp That Once Through Tara's Halls

The harp that once through Tara's halls
  The soul of music shed,
Now hangs as mute on Tara's walls
  As if that soul were fled.
So sleeps the pride of former days,
  So glory's thrill is o'er,
And hearts, that once beat high for praise,
Now feel that pulse no more.

No more to chiefs and ladies bright
  The harp of Tara swells:
The chord alone, that breaks at night,
  Its tale of ruin tells.
Thus freedom now so seldom wakes,
  The only throb she gives
Is when some heart indignant breaks,
  To show that still she lives.

    _Thomas Moore._

Aux Italiens

At Paris it was, at the opera there;--
  And she looked like a queen in a book that night,
With the wreath of pearl in her raven hair,
  And the brooch on her breast so bright.

Of all the operas that Verdi wrote,
  The best, to my taste, is the Trovatore;
And Mario can soothe, with a tenor note,
  The souls in purgatory.

The moon on the tower slept soft as snow;
  And who was not thrilled in the strangest way,
As we heard him sing, while the gas burned low,

The emperor there, in his box of state,
  Looked grave, as if he had just then seen
The red flag wave from the city gate,
  Where his eagles in bronze had been.

The empress, too, had a tear in her eye,
  You'd have said that her fancy had gone back again,
For one moment, under the old blue sky,
  To the old glad life in Spain.

Well, there in our front-row box we sat
  Together, my bride betrothed and I;
My gaze was fixed on my opera hat,
  And hers on the stage hard by.

And both were silent, and both were sad.
  Like a queen she leaned on her full white arm,
With that regal, indolent air she had;
  So confident of her charm!

I have not a doubt she was thinking then
  Of her former lord, good soul that he was!
Who died the richest and roundest of men.
  The Marquis of Carabas.

I hope that, to get to the kingdom of heaven,
  Through a needle's eye he had not to pass;
I wish him well, for the jointure given
  To my Lady of Carabas.

Meanwhile, I was thinking of my first love,
  As I had not been thinking of aught for years,
Till over my eyes there began to move
  Something that felt like tears.

I thought of the dress that she wore last time,
  When we stood 'neath the cypress trees together,
In that lost land, in that soft clime,
  In the crimson evening weather:

Of that muslin dress (for the eve was hot);
  And her warm white neck in its golden chain;
And her full soft hair, just tied in a knot,
  And falling loose again;

And the jasmine flower in her fair young breast;
  (Oh, the faint, sweet smell of that jasmine flower!)
And the one bird singing alone to his nest;
  And the one star over the tower.

I thought of our little quarrels and strife,
  And the letter that brought me back my ring;
And it all seemed then, in the waste of life,
  Such a very little thing!

For I thought of her grave below the hill,
  Which the sentinel cypress tree stands over;
And I thought, "Were she only living still,
  How I could forgive her and love her!"

And I swear, as I thought of her thus, in that hour,
  And of how, after all, old things are best,
That I smelt the smell of that jasmine flower
  Which she used to wear in her breast.

It smelt so faint, and it smelt so sweet,
  It made me creep, and it made me cold;
Like the scent that steals from the crumbling sheet
  Where a mummy is half unrolled.

And I turned and looked: she was sitting there,
  In a dim box over the stage, and drest
In that muslin dress, with that full, soft hair,
  And that jasmine in her breast!

I was here, and she was there;
  And the glittering horse-shoe curved between:--
From my bride betrothed, with her raven hair,
  And her sumptuous, scornful mien,

To my early love, with her eyes downcast,
  And over her primrose face the shade,
(In short, from the future back to the past,)
  There was but a step to be made.

To my early love from my future bride
  One moment I looked. Then I stole to the door,
I traversed the passage; and down at her side
  I was sitting, a moment more.

My thinking of her or the music's strain,
  Or something which never will be exprest,
Had brought her back from the grave again,
  With the jasmine in her breast.

She is not dead, and she is not wed!
  But she loves me now, and she loved me then!
And the very first word that her sweet lips said,
  My heart grew youthful again.

The marchioness there, of Carabas,
  She is wealthy, and young, and handsome still;
And but for her--well, we'll let that pass;
  She may marry whomever she will.

But I will marry my own first love,
  With her primrose face, for old things are best;
And the flower in her bosom, I prize it above
  The brooch in my lady's breast.

The world is filled with folly and sin,
  And love must cling where it can, I say:
For beauty is easy enough to win;
  But one isn't loved every day,

And I think in the lives of most women and men,
  There's a moment when all would go smooth and even,
If only the dead could find out when
  To come back, and be forgiven.

But oh the smell of that jasmine flower!
  And oh, that music! and oh, the way
That voice rang out from the donjon tower,
  _Non ti scordar di me_,
    _Non ti scordar di me!_

    _Robert Bulwer Lytton._

[Footnote A: A line in the opera "II Trovatore" meaning "Do not forget

My Prairies

I love my prairies, they are mine
  From zenith to horizon line,
Clipping a world of sky and sod
  Like the bended arm and wrist of God.

I love their grasses. The skies
  Are larger, and my restless eyes
Fasten on more of earth and air
  Than seashore furnishes anywhere.

I love the hazel thickets; and the breeze,
  The never resting prairie winds. The trees
That stand like spear points high
  Against the dark blue sky

Are wonderful to me. I love the gold
  Of newly shaven stubble, rolled
A royal carpet toward the sun, fit to be
  The pathway of a deity.

I love the life of pasture lands; the songs of birds
  Are not more thrilling to me than the herd's
Mad bellowing or the shadow stride
  Of mounted herdsmen at my side.

I love my prairies, they are mine
  From high sun to horizon line.
The mountains and the cold gray sea
  Are not for me, are not for me.

    _Hamlin Garland._

Home They Brought Her Warrior Dead

(_From "The Princess"_)

Home they brought her warrior dead:
  She nor swoon'd, nor utter'd cry:
All her maidens, watching, said,
  "She must weep or she will die."
Then they praised him, soft and low,
  Call'd him worthy to be loved,
Truest friend and noblest foe;
  Yet she neither spoke nor moved.
Stole a maiden from her place,
  Lightly to the warrior stept,
Took the face-cloth from the face;
  Yet she neither moved nor wept.
Rose a nurse of ninety years,
  Set his child upon her knee--
Like summer tempest came her tears--
  "Sweet my child, I live for thee."

    _Alfred, Lord Tennyson._

September

  Sweet is the voice that calls
  From babbling waterfalls
In meadows where the downy seeds are flying;
  And soft the breezes blow,
  And eddying come and go
In faded gardens where the rose is dying.

  Among the stubbled corn
  The blithe quail pipes at morn,
The merry partridge drums in hidden places,
  And glittering insects gleam
  Above the reedy stream,
Where busy spiders spin their filmy laces.

  At eve, cool shadows fall
  Across the garden wall,
And on the clustered grapes to purple turning;
  And pearly vapors lie
  Along the eastern sky,
Where the broad harvest-moon is redly burning.

  Ah, soon on field and hill
  The wind shall whistle chill,
And patriarch swallows call their flocks together,
  To fly from frost and snow,
  And seek for lands where blow
The fairer blossoms of a balmier weather.

  The cricket chirps all day,
  "O fairest summer, stay!"
The squirrel eyes askance the chestnuts browning;
  The wild fowl fly afar
  Above the foamy bar,
And hasten southward ere the skies are frowning.

  Now comes a fragrant breeze
  Through the dark cedar-trees
And round about my temples fondly lingers,
  In gentle playfulness,
  Like to the soft caress
Bestowed in happier days by loving fingers.

  Yet, though a sense of grief
  Comes with the falling leaf,
And memory makes the summer doubly pleasant,
  In all my autumn dreams
  A future summer gleams,
Passing the fairest glories of the present!

    _George Arnold._

The Old Kitchen Floor

Far back, in my musings, my thoughts have been cast
To the cot where the hours of my childhood were passed.
I loved all its rooms from the pantry to hall,
But the blessed old kitchen was dearer than all.
Its chairs and its tables no brighter could be
And all its surroundings were sacred to me,
From the nail in the ceiling to the latch on the door,
And I loved every crack in that old kitchen floor.

I remember the fireplace with mouth high and wide
And the old-fashioned oven that stood by its side
Out of which each Thanksgiving came puddings and pies
And they fairly bewildered and dazzled our eyes.
And then old St. Nicholas slyly and still
Came down every Christmas our stockings to fill.
But the dearest of memories laid up in store
Is my mother a-sweeping that old kitchen floor.

To-night those old musings come back at their will
But the wheel and its music forever are still.
The band is moth-eaten, the wheel laid away,
And the fingers that turned it are mold'ring in clay.
The hearthstone so sacred is just as 'twas then
And the voices of children ring out there again.
The sun at the window looks in as of yore,
But it sees other feet on that old kitchen floor.

Rustic Courtship

The night was dark when Sam set out
  To court old Jones's daughter;
He kinder felt as if he must,
  And kinder hadn't oughter.
His heart against his waistcoat throbbed,
  His feelings had a tussle,
Which nearly conquered him despite
  Six feet of bone and muscle.

The candle in the window shone
  With a most doleful glimmer,
And Sam he felt his courage ooze,
  And through his fingers simmer.
Says he: "Now, Sam, don't be a fool,
  Take courage, shaking doubter,
Go on, and pop the question right,
  For you can't live without her."

But still, as he drew near the house,
  His knees got in a tremble,
The beating of his heart ne'er beat
  His efforts to dissemble.
Says he: "Now, Sam, don't be a goose,
  And let the female wimmin
Knock all your thoughts a-skelter so,
  And set your heart a-swimmin'."

So Sam, he kinder raised the latch,
  His courage also raising,
And in a moment he sat inside,
  Cid Jones's crops a-praising.
He tried awhile to talk the farm
  In words half dull, half witty,
Not knowing that old Jones well knew
  His only thought was--Kitty.

At last the old folks went to bed--
  The Joneses were but human;
Old Jones was something of a man,
  And Mrs. Jones--a woman.
And Kitty she the pitcher took,
  And started for the cellar;
It wasn't often that she had
  So promising a feller.

And somehow when she came upstairs,
  And Sam had drank his cider,
There seemed a difference in the chairs,
  And Sam was close beside her;
His stalwart arm dropped round her waist,
  Her head dropped on his shoulder,
And Sam--well, he had changed his tune
And grown a trifle bolder.

But this, if you live long enough,
  You surely will discover,
There's nothing in this world of ours
  Except the loved and lover.
The morning sky was growing gray
  As Sam the farm was leaving,
His face was surely not the face
  Of one half grieved, or grieving.

And Kitty she walked smiling back,
  With blushing face, and slowly;
There's something in the humblest love
  That makes it pure and holy.
And did he marry her, you ask?
  She stands there with the ladle
A-skimming of the morning's milk--
  That's Sam who rocks the cradle.

The Red Jacket

'Tis a cold, bleak night! with angry roar
The north winds beat and clamor at the door;
The drifted snow lies heaped along the street,
Swept by a blinding storm of hail and sleet;
The clouded heavens no guiding starlight lend
But o'er the earth in gloom and darkness bend;
Gigantic shadows, by the night lamps thrown,
Dance their weird revels fitfully alone.

In lofty halls, where fortune takes its ease,
Sunk in the treasures of all lands and seas;
In happy homes, where warmth and comfort meet
The weary traveler with their smiles to greet;
In lowly dwellings, where the needy swarm
Round starving embers, chilling limbs to warm,
Rises the prayer that makes the sad heart light--
"Thank God for home, this bitter, bitter night!"

But hark! above the beating of the storm
Peals on the startled ear the fire alarm.
Yon gloomy heaven's aflame with sudden light,
And heart-beats quicken with a strange affright;
From tranquil slumbers springs, at duty's call,
The ready friend no danger can appall;
Fierce for the conflict, sturdy, true, and brave,
He hurries forth to battle and to save.

From yonder dwelling, fiercely shooting out,
Devouring all they coil themselves about,
The flaming furies, mounting high and higher,
Wrap the frail structure in a cloak of fire.
Strong arms are battling with the stubborn foe
In vain attempts their power to overthrow;
With mocking glee they revel with their prey,
Defying human skill to check their way.

And see! far up above the flame's hot breath,
Something that's human waits a horrid death;
A little child, with waving golden hair,
Stands, like a phantom, 'mid the horrid glare,--
Her pale, sweet face against the window pressed,
While sobs of terror shake her tender breast.
And from the crowd beneath, in accents wild,
A mother screams, "O God! my child! my child!"

Up goes a ladder. Through the startled throng
A hardy fireman swiftly moves along;
Mounts sure and fast along the slender way,
Fearing no danger, dreading but delay.
The stifling smoke-clouds lower in his path,
Sharp tongues of flame assail him in their wrath;
But up, still up he goes! the goal is won!
His strong arm beats the sash, and he is gone!

Gone to his death. The wily flames surround
And burn and beat his ladder to the ground,
In flaming columns move with quickened beat
To rear a massive wall 'gainst his retreat.
Courageous heart, thy mission was so pure,
Suffering humanity must thy loss deplore;
Henceforth with martyred heroes thou shalt live,
Crowned with all honors nobleness can give.

Nay, not so fast; subdue these gloomy fears;
Behold! he quickly on the roof appears,
Bearing the tender child, his jacket warm
Flung round her shrinking form to guard from harm,
Up with your ladders! Quick! 'tis but a chance!
Behold, how fast the roaring flames advance!
Quick! quick! brave spirits, to his rescue fly;
Up! up! by heavens, this hero must not die!

Silence! he comes along the burning road,
Bearing, with tender care, his living load;
Aha! he totters! Heaven in mercy save
The good, true heart that can so nobly brave!
He's up again! and now he's coming fast--
One moment, and the fiery ordeal's passed--
And now he's safe! Bold flames, ye fought in vain.
A happy mother clasps her child again.

    _George M. Baker._

John Maynard

'Twas on Lake Erie's broad expanse
  One bright midsummer day,
The gallant steamer Ocean Queen
  Swept proudly on her way.
Bright faces clustered on the deck,
  Or, leaning o'er the side,
Watched carelessly the feathery foam
  That flecked the rippling tide.

Ah, who beneath that cloudless sky,
  That smiling bends serene,
Could dream that danger, awful, vast,
  Impended o'er the scene;
Could dream that ere an hour had sped
  That frame of sturdy oak
Would sink beneath the lake's blue waves,
  Blackened with fire and smoke?

A seaman sought the captain's side,
  A moment whispered low;
The captain's swarthy face grew pale;
  He hurried down below.
Alas, too late! Though quick, and sharp,
  And clear his orders came,
No human efforts could avail
  To quench th' insidious flame.

The bad news quickly reached the deck,
  It sped from lip to lip,
And ghastly faces everywhere
  Looked from the doomed ship.
"Is there no hope, no chance of life?"
  A hundred lips implore;
"But one," the captain made reply,
  "To run the ship on shore."

A sailor, whose heroic soul
  That hour should yet reveal,
By name John Maynard, eastern-born,
  Stood calmly at the wheel.
"Head her southeast!" the captain shouts,
  Above the smothered roar,
"Head her southeast without delay!
  Make for the nearest shore!"

No terror pales the helmsman's cheek,
  Or clouds his dauntless eye,
As, in a sailor's measured tone,
  His voice responds, "Ay! ay!"
Three hundred souls, the steamer's freight,
  Crowd forward wild with fear,
While at the stern the dreaded flames
  Above the deck appear.

John Maynard watched the nearing flames,
  But still with steady hand
He grasped the wheel, and steadfastly
  He steered the ship to land.
"John Maynard, can you still hold out?"
  He heard the captain cry;
A voice from out the stifling smoke
  Faintly responds, "Ay! ay!"

But half a mile! a hundred hands
  Stretch eagerly to shore.
But half a mile! That distance sped
  Peril shall all be o'er.
But half a mile! Yet stay, the flames
  No longer slowly creep,
But gather round that helmsman bold,
  With fierce, impetuous sweep.

"John Maynard!" with an anxious voice
  The captain cries once more,
"Stand by the wheel five minutes yet,
  And we shall reach the shore."
Through flame and smoke that dauntless heart
  Responded firmly still,
Unawed, though face to face with death,
  "With God's good help I will!"

The flames approach with giant strides,
  They scorch his hand and brow;
One arm, disabled, seeks his side,
  Ah! he is conquered now.
But no, his teeth are firmly set,
  He crushes down his pain,
His knee upon the stanchion pressed,
  He guides the ship again.

One moment yet! one moment yet!
  Brave heart, thy task is o'er,
The pebbles grate beneath the keel,
  The steamer touches shore.
Three hundred grateful voices rise
  In praise to God that He
Hath saved them from the fearful fire,
  And from the engulfing sea.

But where is he, that helmsman bold?
  The captain saw him reel,
His nerveless hands released their task,
  He sank beside the wheel.
The wave received his lifeless corse,
  Blackened with smoke and fire.
God rest him! Never hero had
  A nobler funeral pyre!

    _Horatio Alger, Jr._

Piller Fights

Piller fights is fun, I tell you;
There isn't anything I'd rather do
Than get a big piller and hold it tight,
Stand up in bed and then just fight.

Us boys allers have our piller fights
And the best night of all is Pa's lodge night.
Soon as ever he goes, we say "Good night,"
Then go right upstairs for a piller fight.

Sometimes maybe Ma comes to the stairs
And hollers up, "Boys, have you said your prayers?"
And then George will holler "Yes, Mamma," for he always has;
Good deal of preacher about George, Pa says.

Ma says "Pleasant dreams," and shuts the door;
If she's a-listenin' both of us snore,
But as soon as ever she goes we light a light
And pitch right into our piller fight.

We play that the bed is Bunker Hill
And George is Americans, so he stands still.
But I am the British, so I must hit
As hard as ever I can to make him git.
We played Buena Vista one night--
Tell you, that was an awful hard fight!

Held up our pillers like they was a flag,
An' hollered, "Little more grape-juice, Captain Bragg!"
That was the night that George hit the nail--
You just ought to have seen those feathers sail!

I was covered as white as flour,
Me and him picked them up for 'most an hour;
Next day when our ma saw that there mess
She was pretty mad, you better guess;

And she told our pa, and he just said,
"Come right on out to this here shed."
Tell you, he whipped us till we were sore
And made us both promise to do it no more.

That was a long time ago, and now lodge nights
Or when Pa's away we have piller fights,
But in Buena Vista George is bound
To see there aren't any nails anywhere 'round.

Piller fights is fun, I tell you;
There isn't anything I'd rather do
Than get a big piller and hold it tight,
Stand up in bed, and then just fight.

    _D.A. Ellsworth._

Little Bateese

You bad leetle boy, not moche you care
How busy you're kipin' your poor gran'pere
Tryin' to stop you ev'ry day
Chasin' de hen aroun' de hay.
W'y don't you geev' dem a chance to lay!
          Leetle Bateese!

Off on de fiel' you foller de plough,
Den we'en you're tire, you scare de cow,
Sickin' de dog till dey jamp de wall
So de milk ain't good for not'ing at all,
An' you're only five an' a half this fall--
          Leetle Bateese!

Too sleepy for sayin' de prayer tonight?
Never min', I s'pose it'll be all right;
Say dem to-morrow--ah! dere he go!
Fas' asleep in a minute or so--
An' he'll stay lak dat till the rooster crow--
          Leetle Bateese.

Den wake up right away, toute suite,
Lookin' for somethin' more to eat,
Makin' me t'ink of dem long-lag crane,
Soon as they swaller, dey start again;
I wonder your stomach don't get no pain,
          Leetle Bateese.

But see heem now lyin' dere in bed,
Look at de arm onderneat' hees head;
If he grow lak dat till he's twenty year,
I bet he'll be stronger than Louis Cyr
And beat de voyageurs leevin' here--
          Leetle Bateese.

Jus' feel de muscle along hees back,--
Won't geev' heem moche bodder for carry pack
On de long portage, any size canoe;
Dere's not many t'ings dat boy won't do,
For he's got double-joint on hees body too--
          Leetle Bateese.

But leetle Bateese! please don't forget
We rader you're stayin' de small boy yet.
So chase de chicken and mak' dem scare,
An' do w'at you lak wit' your ole gran'pere,
For w'en you're beeg feller he won't be dere--
          Leetle Bateese!

    _W.H. Drummond._

Conscience and Future Judgment

I sat alone with my conscience,
In a place where time had ceased,
And we talked of my former living
In the land where the years increased;
And I felt I should have to answer
The question it might put to me,
And to face the question and answer
Throughout an eternity.

The ghosts of forgotten actions
Came floating before my sight,
And things that I thought had perished
Were alive with a terrible might;
And the vision of life's dark record
Was an awful thing to face--
Alone with my conscience sitting
In that solemnly silent place.

And I thought of a far-away warning,
Of a sorrow that was to be mine,
In a land that then was the future,
But now is the present time;
And I thought of my former thinking
Of the judgment day to be;
But sitting alone with my conscience
Seemed judgment enough for me.

And I wondered if there was a future
To this land beyond the grave;
But no one gave me an answer
And no one came to save.
Then I felt that the future was present,
And the present would never go by,
For it was but the thought of a future
Become an eternity.

Then I woke from my timely dreaming,
And the vision passed away;
And I knew the far-away warning
Was a warning of yesterday.
And I pray that I may not forget it
In this land before the grave,
That I may not cry out in the future,
And no one come to save.

I have learned a solemn lesson
Which I ought to have known before,
And which, though I learned it dreaming,
I hope to forget no more.

So I sit alone with my conscience
In the place where the years increase,
And I try to fathom the future,
In the land where time shall cease.
And I know of the future judgment,
How dreadful soe'er it be,
That to sit alone with my conscience
Will be judgment enough for me.

Dandelion

There's a dandy little fellow,
Who dresses all in yellow,
In yellow with an overcoat of green;
With his hair all crisp and curly,
In the springtime bright and early
A-tripping o'er the meadow he is seen.
Through all the bright June weather,
Like a jolly little tramp,
He wanders o'er the hillside, down the road;
Around his yellow feather,
Thy gypsy fireflies camp;
His companions are the wood lark and the toad.

But at last this little fellow
Doffs his dainty coat of yellow,
And very feebly totters o'er the green;
For he very old is growing
And with hair all white and flowing,
A-nodding in the sunlight he is seen.
Oh, poor dandy, once so spandy,
Golden dancer on the lea!
Older growing, white hair flowing,
Poor little baldhead dandy now is he!

    _Nellie M. Garabrant._

The Inventor's Wife

It's easy to talk of the patience of Job, Humph! Job hed nothin' to try
    him!
Ef he'd been married to 'Bijah Brown, folks wouldn't have dared come
    nigh him.
Trials, indeed! Now I'll tell you what--ef you want to be sick of your
      life,
Jest come and change places with me a spell--for I'm an inventor's wife.
And such inventions! I'm never sure, when I take up my coffee-pot,
That 'Bijah hain't been "improvin'" it and it mayn't go off like a shot.
Why, didn't he make me a cradle once, that would keep itself a-rockin';
And didn't it pitch the baby out, and wasn't his head bruised shockin'?
And there was his "Patent Peeler," too--a wonderful thing, I'll say;
But it hed one fault-it never stopped till the apple was peeled away.
As for locks and clocks, and mowin' machines and reapers, and all such
    trash,
Why, 'Bijah's invented heaps of 'em but they don't bring in no cash.
Law! that don't worry him--not at all; he's the most aggravatin'est man--
He'll set in his little workshop there, and whistle, and think, and plan,
Inventin' a jew's-harp to go by steam, or a new-fangled powder-horn,
While the children's goin' barefoot to school and the weeds is chokin'
    our corn.
When 'Bijah and me kep' company, he warn't like this, you know;
Our folks all thought he was dreadful smart--but that was years ago.
He was handsome as any pictur then, and he had such a glib, bright way--
I never thought that a time would come when I'd rue my weddin' day;
But when I've been forced to chop wood, and tend to the farm beside,
And look at Bijah a-settin' there, I've jest dropped down and cried.
We lost the hull of our turnip crop while he was inventin' a gun
But I counted it one of my marcies when it bu'st before 'twas done.
So he turned it into a "burglar alarm." It ought to give thieves a fright--
'Twould scare an honest man out of his wits, ef he sot it off at night.
Sometimes I wonder if 'Bijah's crazy, he does sech cur'ous things.
Hev I told you about his bedstead yit?--'Twas full of wheels and springs;
It hed a key to wind it up, and a clock face at the head;
All you did was to turn them hands, and at any hour you said,
That bed got up and shook itself, and bounced you on the floor,
And then shet up, jest like a box, so you couldn't sleep any more.
Wa'al, 'Bijah he fixed it all complete, and he sot it at half-past five,
But he hadn't mor'n got into it when--dear me! sakes alive!
Them wheels began to whiz and whir! I heered a fearful snap!
And there was that bedstead, with 'Bijah inside, shet up jest like a trap!
I screamed, of course, but 'twan't no use, then I worked that hull long
    night
A-trying to open the pesky thing. At last I got in a fright;
I couldn't hear his voice inside, and I thought he might be dyin';
So I took a crow-bar and smashed it in.--There was 'Bijah peacefully
    lyin',
Inventin' a way to git out agin. That was all very well to say,
But I don't b'lieve he'd have found it out if I'd left him in all day.
Now, sence I've told you my story, do you wonder I'm tired of life?
Or think it strange I often wish I warn't an inventor's wife?

    _Mrs. E.T. Corbett._

Out in the Snow

The snow and the silence came down together,
  Through the night so white and so still;
And young folks housed from the bitter weather,
  Housed from the storm and the chill--

Heard in their dreams the sleigh-bells jingle,
  Coasted the hill-sides under the moon,
Felt their cheeks with the keen air tingle,
  Skimmed the ice with their steel-clad shoon.

They saw the snow when they rose in the morning,
  Glittering ghosts of the vanished night,
Though the sun shone clear in the winter dawning,
  And the day with a frosty pomp was bright.

Out in the clear, cold, winter weather--
  Out in the winter air, like wine--
Kate with her dancing scarlet feather,
  Bess with her peacock plumage fine,

Joe and Jack with their pealing laughter,
  Frank and Tom with their gay hallo,
And half a score of roisterers after,
  Out in the witching, wonderful snow,

Shivering graybeards shuffle and stumble,
  Righting themselves with a frozen frown,
Grumbling at every snowy tumble;
  But young folks know why the snow came down.

    _Louise Chandler Moulton._

Give Them the Flowers Now

Closed eyes can't see the white roses,
  Cold hands can't hold them, you know;
Breath that is stilled cannot gather
  The odors that sweet from them blow.
Death, with a peace beyond dreaming,
  Its children of earth doth endow;
Life is the time we can help them,
  So give them the flowers now!

Here are the struggles and striving,
  Here are the cares and the tears;
Now is the time to be smoothing
  The frowns and the furrows and fears.
What to closed eyes are kind sayings?
  What to hushed heart is deep vow?
Naught can avail after parting,
  So give them the flowers now!

Just a kind word or a greeting;
  Just a warm grasp or a smile--
These are the flowers that will lighten
  The burdens for many a mile.
After the journey is over
  What is the use of them; how
Can they carry them who must be carried?
  Oh, give them the flowers now!

Blooms from the happy heart's garden,
  Plucked in the spirit of love;
Blooms that are earthly reflections
  Of flowers that blossom above.
Words cannot tell what a measure
  Of blessing such gifts will allow
To dwell in the lives of many,
  So give them the flowers now!

    _Leigh M. Hodges._

The Lost Occasion

(Written in memory of Daniel Webster.)

Some die too late and some too soon,
At early morning, heat of noon,
Or the chill evening twilight. Thou,
Whom the rich heavens did so endow
With eyes of power and Jove's own brow,
With all the massive strength that fills
Thy home-horizon's granite hills,
With rarest gifts of heart and head
From manliest stock inherited--
New England's stateliest type of man,
In port and speech Olympian;
Whom no one met, at first, but took
A second awed and wondering look
(As turned, perchance, the eyes of Greece
On Phidias' unveiled masterpiece);
Whose words, in simplest home-spun clad,
The Saxon strength of Caedmon's had,
With power reserved at need to reach
The Roman forum's loftiest speech,
Sweet with persuasion, eloquent
In passion, cool in argument,
Or, ponderous, falling on thy foes
As fell the Norse god's hammer blows.
Crushing as if with Talus' flail
Through Error's logic-woven mail,
And failing only when they tried
The adamant of the righteous side,--
Thou, foiled in aim and hope, bereaved
Of old friends, by the new deceived,
Too soon for us, too soon for thee,
Beside thy lonely Northern sea,
Where long and low the marsh-lands spread,
Laid wearily down thy august head.

Thou shouldst have lived to feel below
Thy feet Disunion's fierce upthrow,--
The late-sprung mine that underlaid
Thy sad concessions vainly made.
Thou shouldst have seen from Sumter's wall
The star-flag of the Union fall,
And armed Rebellion pressing on
The broken lines of Washington!
No stronger voice than thine had then
Called out the utmost might of men,
To make the Union's charter free
And strengthen law by liberty.
How had that stern arbitrament
To thy gray age youth's vigor lent,
Shaming ambition's paltry prize
Before thy disillusioned eyes;
Breaking the spell about thee wound
Like the green withes that Samson bound;
Redeeming, in one effort grand,
Thyself and thy imperiled land!
Ah cruel fate, that closed to thee,
O sleeper by the Northern sea,
The gates of opportunity!
God fills the gaps of human need,
Each crisis brings its word and deed.
Wise men and strong we did not lack;
But still, with memory turning back,
In the dark hours we thought of thee,
And thy lone grave beside the sea.

Above that grave the east winds blow,
And from the marsh-lands drifting slow
The sea-fog comes, with evermore
The wave-wash of a lonely shore,
And sea-bird's melancholy cry,
As Nature fain would typify
The sadness of a closing scene,
The loss of that which should have been.
But, where thy native mountains bare
Their foreheads to diviner air,
Fit emblem of enduring fame,
One lofty summit keeps thy name.
For thee the cosmic forces did
The rearing of that pyramid,
The prescient ages shaping with
Fire, flood, and frost thy monolith.
Sunrise and sunset lay thereon
With hands of light their benison,
The stars of midnight pause to set
Their jewels in its coronet.
And evermore that mountain mass
Seems climbing from the shadowy pass
To light, as if to manifest
Thy nobler self, they life at best!

    _John G. Whittier._

The Flower of Liberty

What flower is this that greets the morn,
Its hues from Heaven so freshly born?
With burning star and flaming band
It kindles all the sunset land:
O tell us what its name may be,--
Is this the Flower of Liberty?
    It is the banner of the free,
    The starry Flower of Liberty!

In savage Nature's far abode
Its tender seed our fathers sowed;
The storm-winds rocked its swelling bud,
Its opening leaves were streaked with blood,
Till lo! earth's tyrants shook to see
The full-blown Flower of Liberty!
    Then hail the banner of the free,
    The starry Flower of Liberty!

Behold its streaming rays unite,
One mingling flood of braided light--
The red that fires the Southern rose,
With spotless white from Northern snows,
And, spangled o'er its azure, see
The sister Stars of Liberty!
    Then hail the banner of the free,
    The starry Flower of Liberty!

The blades of heroes fence it round,
Where'er it springs is holy ground;
From tower and dome its glories spread;
It waves where lonely sentries tread;
It makes the land as ocean free,
And plants an empire on the sea!
    Then hail the banner of the free,
    The starry Flower of Liberty!

Thy sacred leaves, fair Freedom's flower,
Shall ever float on dome and tower,
To all their heavenly colors true,
In blackening frost or crimson dew,--
And God love us as we love thee,
Thrice holy Flower of Liberty!
    Then hail the banner of the free,
    The starry Flower of Liberty!

    _Oliver Wendell Holmes._

The Lamb

  Little lamb, who made thee?
  Dost thou know who made thee,
Gave thee life, and made thee feed
By the stream and o'er the mead?
Gave thee clothing of delight,--
Softest clothing, woolly, bright?
Gave thee such a tender voice,
Making all the vales rejoice?
  Little lamb, who made thee?
  Dost thou know who made thee?

  Little lamb, I'll tell thee;
  Little lamb, I'll tell thee;
He is called by thy name,
For he calls himself a lamb.
He is meek and He is mild;
He became a little child:
I a child, and thou a lamb,
We are called by His name.
  Little lamb, God bless thee!
  Little lamb, God bless thee!

    _William Blake._

The Roll Call

"Corporal Green!" the orderly cried;
  "Here!" was the answer, loud and clear,
  From the lips of the soldier standing near,
And "Here" was the answer the next replied.

"Cyrus Drew!"--then a silence fell--
  This time no answer followed the call,
  Only the rear man had seen him fall,
Killed or wounded he could not tell.

There they stood in the failing light,
  These men of battle, with grave dark looks,
  As plain to be read as open books,
While slowly gathered the shades of night.

The fern on the hillside was splashed with blood,
  And down in the corn, where the poppies grew
  Were redder stains than the poppies knew
And crimson-dyed was the river's flood.

"Herbert Kline!" At the call there came
  Two stalwart soldiers into the line,
  Bearing between them Herbert Kline,
Wounded and bleeding, to answer his name.

"Ezra Kerr!"--and a voice said "Here!"
  "Hiram Kerr!"--but no man replied.
  They were brothers, these two; the sad winds sighed,
And a shudder crept through the cornfield near.

"Ephraim Deane!" then a soldier spoke;
  "Deane carried our regiment's colors," he said;
  "Where our ensign was shot, I left him dead,
Just after the enemy wavered and broke.

"Close by the roadside his body lies;
  I paused a moment and gave him a drink,
  He murmured his mother's name I think,
And Death came with it and closed his eyes."

'Twas a victory; yes, but it cost us dear--
  For that company's roll when called that night,
  Of a hundred men who went into the fight,
Numbered but twenty that answered "Here!"

    _N.G. Shepherd._

A Prayer for a Little Home

God send us a little home
To come back to when we roam--
Low walls and fluted tiles,
Wide windows, a view for miles;
Red firelight and deep chairs;
Small white beds upstairs;
Great talk in little nooks;
Dim colors, rows of books;
One picture on each wall;
Not many things at all.
God send us a little ground--
Tall trees standing round,
Homely flowers in brown sod,
Overhead, Thy stars, O God!
God bless, when winds blow,
Our home and all we know.

    _London "Spectator."_

I Have Drank My Last Glass

No, comrades, I thank you--not any for me;
My last chain is riven--henceforward I'm free!
I will go to my home and my children to-night
With no fumes of liquor their spirits to blight;
And, with tears in my eyes, I will beg my poor wife
To forgive me the wreck I have made of her life.
_I have never refused you before?_ Let that pass,
  For I've drank my last glass, boys,
  I have drank my last glass.

Just look at me now, boys, in rags and disgrace,
With my bleared, haggard eyes, and my red, bloated face;
Mark my faltering step and my weak, palsied hand,
And the mark on my brow that is worse than Cain's brand;
See my crownless old hat, and my elbows and knees,
Alike, warmed by the sun, or chilled by the breeze.
Why, even the children will hoot as I pass;--
  But I've drank my last glass, boys,
  I have drank my last glass.

You would hardly believe, boys, to look at me now
That a mother's soft hand was pressed on my brow--
When she kissed me, and blessed me, her darling, her pride,
Ere she lay down to rest by my dead father's side;
But with love in her eyes, she looked up to the sky
Bidding me meet her there and whispered "Good-bye."
And I'll do it, God helping! Your _smile_ I let pass,
  For I've drank my last glass, boys,
  I have drank my last glass.

Ah! I reeled home last night, it was not very late,
For I'd spent my last sixpence, and landlords won't wait
On a fellow who's left every cent in their till,
And has pawned his last bed, their coffers to fill.
Oh, the torments I felt, and the pangs I endured!
And I begged for one glass--just one would have cured,--
But they kicked me out doors! I let that, too, pass,
  For I've drank my last glass, boys,
  I have drank my last glass.

At home, my pet Susie, with her rich golden hair,
I saw through the window, just kneeling in prayer;
From her pale, bony hands, her torn sleeves hung down,
And her feet, cold and bare, shrank beneath her scant gown,
And she prayed--prayed for _bread_, just a poor crust of bread,
For one crust, on her knees my pet darling plead!
And I heard, with no penny to buy one, alas!
  For I've drank my last glass, boys,
  I have drank my last glass.

For Susie, my darling, my wee six-year-old,
Though fainting with hunger and shivering with cold,
There, on the bare floor, asked God to bless _me_!
And she said, "Don't cry, mamma! He will; for you see,
I _believe_ what I ask for!" Then sobered, I crept
Away from the house; and that night, when I slept,
Next my heart lay the PLEDGE! You smile! let it pass,
  For I've drank my last glass, boys
  I have drank my last glass.

My darling child saved me! Her faith and her love
Are akin to my dear sainted mother's above!
I will make my words true, or I'll die in the race,
And sober I'll go to my last resting place;
And she shall kneel there, and, weeping, thank God
No _drunkard_ lies under the daisy-strewn sod!
Not a drop more of poison my lips shall e'er pass,
  For I've drank my last glass, boys,
  I have drank my last glass.

Highland Mary

Ye banks, and braes, and streams around
  The castle o' Montgomery,
Green be your woods, and fair your flowers,
  Your waters never drumlie!
There simmer first unfauld her robes,
  And there the langest tarry;
For there I took the last fareweel
  O' my sweet Highland Mary.

How sweetly bloom'd the gay green birk,
  How rich the hawthorn's blossom,
As, underneath their fragrant shade,
  I clasp'd her to my bosom!
The golden hours, on angel wings,
  Flew o'er me and my dearie;
For dear to me as light and life
  Was my sweet Highland Mary!

Wi' mony a vow, and lock'd embrace,
  Our parting was fu' tender;
And, pledging aft to meet again,
  We tore oursels asunder;
But, oh, fell death's untimely frost,
  That nipp'd my flower sae early!
Now green's the sod and cauld's the clay,
  That wraps my Highland Mary!

Oh, pale, pale now, those rosy lips,
  I aft ha'e kiss'd, sae fondly!
And closed for aye the sparkling glance
  That dwalt on me sae kindly!
And mouldering now in silent dust,
  That heart that lo'ed me dearly;
But still within my bosom's core
  Shall live my Highland Mary!

    _Robert Burns._

A Night with a Wolf

Little one, come to my knee!
  Hark, how the rain is pouring
Over the roof, in the pitch-black night,
  And the wind in the woods a-roaring!

Hush, my darling, and listen,
  Then pay for the story with kisses;
Father was lost in the pitch-black night,
  In just such a storm as this is!

High up on the lonely mountains,
  Where the wild men watched and waited
Wolves in the forest, and bears in the bush,
  And I on my path belated.

The rain and the night together
  Came down, and the wind came after,
Bending the props of the pine-tree roof,
  And snapping many a rafter.

I crept along in the darkness,
  Stunned, and bruised, and blinded,--
Crept to a fir with thick-set boughs,
  And a sheltering rock behind it.

There, from the blowing and raining
  Crouching, I sought to hide me:
Something rustled, two green eyes shone,
  And a wolf lay down beside me.

Little one, be not frightened;
  I and the wolf together,
Side by side, through the long, long night
  Hid from the awful weather.

His wet fur pressed against me;
  Each of us warmed the other;
Each of us felt, in the stormy dark,
  That beast and man was brother.

And when the falling forest
  No longer crashed in warning,
Each of us went from our hiding-place
  Forth in the wild, wet morning.

Darling, kiss me in payment!
  Hark, how the wind is roaring;
Father's house is a better place
  When the stormy rain is pouring!

    _Bayard Taylor._

She Was a Phantom of Delight

She was a Phantom of delight
When first she gleamed upon my sight;
A lovely Apparition sent
To be a moment's ornament;
Her eyes as stars of Twilight fair;
Like Twilight's, too, her dusky hair;
But all things else about her drawn
From May-time and the cheerful Dawn;
A dancing Shape, an Image gay,
To haunt, to startle, and way-lay.

I saw her upon nearer view,
A Spirit, yet a Woman too!
Her household motions light and free,
And steps of virgin-liberty;
A countenance in which did meet
Sweet records, promises as sweet;
A Creature not too bright or good
For human nature's daily food;
For transient sorrows, simple wiles,
Praise, blame, love, kisses, tears and smiles.

And now I see with eye serene
The very pulse of the machine;
A Being breathing thoughtful breath,
A Traveler between life and death;
The reason firm, the temperate will,
Endurance, foresight, strength, and skill;
A perfect Woman, nobly planned,
To warn, to comfort, and command;
And yet a Spirit still, and bright
With something of angelic light.

    _William Wordsworth._

The Rhodora

(_On Being Asked Whence Is The Flower_)

In May, when sea-winds pierced our solitudes,
I found the fresh Rhodora in the woods,
Spreading its leafless blooms in a damp nook,
To please the desert and the sluggish brook.
The purple petals, fallen in the pool,
Made the black water with their beauty gay;
Here might the red-bird come his plumes to cool,
And court the flower that cheapens his array.
Rhodora! if the sages ask thee why
This charm is wasted on the earth and sky,
Tell them, dear, that if eyes were made for seeing,
Then Beauty is its own excuse for being:
Why thou wert there, O rival of the rose!
I never thought to ask, I never knew:
But, in my simple ignorance, suppose
The self-same Power that brought me there brought you.

    _Ralph Waldo Emerson._

There Was a Boy

There was a Boy; ye knew him well, ye cliffs
And islands of Winander!--many a time,
At evening, when the earliest stars began
To move along the edges of the hills,
Rising or setting, would he stand alone,
Beneath the trees, or by the glimmering lake;
And there, with fingers interwoven, both hands
Pressed closely palm to palm and to his mouth
Uplifted, he, as through an instrument,
Blew mimic hootings to the silent owls,
That they might answer him,--And they would shout
Across the watery vale, and shout again,
Responsive to his call,--with quivering peals,
And long halloos, and screams, and echoes loud
Redoubled and redoubled; concourse wild
Of jocund din! and, when there came a pause
Of silence such as baffled his best skill,
Then, sometimes, in that silence, while he hung
Listening, a gentle shock of mild surprise
Has carried far into his heart the voice
Of mountain-torrents; or the visible scene
Would enter unawares into his mind
With all its solemn imagery, its rocks,
Its woods, and that uncertain heaven received
Into the bosom of the steady lake.
This boy was taken from his mates, and died
In childhood, ere he was full twelve years old.
Pre-eminent in beauty is the vale
Where he was born and bred: the church-yard hangs
Upon a slope above the village-school;
And through that church-yard when my way has led
On Summer-evenings, I believe, that there
A long half-hour together I have stood
Mute--looking at the grave in which he lies!

    _William Wordsworth._

The Quangle Wangle's Hat

On the top of the Crumpetty Tree
  The Quangle Wangle sat,
But his face you could not see,
  On account of his Beaver Hat.
For his hat was a hundred and two feet wide,
With ribbons and bibbons on every side,
And bells, and buttons, and loops, and lace,
So that nobody ever could see the face
  Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

The Quangle Wangle said
  To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
"Jam, and jelly, and bread
  Are the best of food for me!
But the longer I live on this Crumpetty Tree
The plainer than ever it seems to me
That very few people come this way
And that life on the whole is far from gay!"
  Said the Quangle Wangle Quee.

But there came to the Crumpetty Tree
  Mr. and Mrs. Canary;
And they said, "Did ever you see
  Any spot so charmingly airy?
May we build a nest on your lovely Hat?
Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
Oh, please let us come and build a nest
Of whatever material suits you best,
  Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"

And besides, to the Crumpetty Tree
  Came the Stork, the Duck, and the Owl;
The Snail and the Bumblebee,
  The Frog and the Fimble Fowl
(The Fimble Fowl, with a corkscrew leg);
And all of them said, "We humbly beg
We may build our homes on your lovely Hat,--
Mr. Quangle Wangle, grant us that!
  Mr. Quangle Wangle Quee!"

And the Golden Grouse came there,
  And the Pobble who has no toes,
And the small Olympian bear,
  And the Dong with a luminous nose.
And the Blue Baboon who played the flute,
And the Orient Calf from the Land of Tute,
And the Attery Squash, and the Bisky Bat,--
All came and built on the lovely Hat
  Of the Quangle Wangle Quee.

And the Quangle Wangle said
  To himself on the Crumpetty Tree,
"When all these creatures move
  What a wonderful noise there'll be!"
And at night by the light of the Mulberry Moon
They danced to the Flute of the Blue Baboon,
On the broad green leaves of the Crumpetty Tree,
And all were as happy as happy could be,
With the Quangle Wangle Quee.

    _Edward Lear._

The Singing Leaves

I

"What fairings will ye that I bring?"
  Said the King to his daughters three;
"For I to Vanity Fair am boun,
  Now say what shall they be?"

Then up and spake the eldest daughter,
  That lady tall and grand:
"Oh, bring me pearls and diamonds great,
  And gold rings for my hand."

Thereafter spake the second daughter,
  That was both white and red:
"For me bring silks that will stand alone,
  And a gold comb for my head."

Then came the turn of the least daughter,
  That was whiter than thistle-down,
And among the gold of her blithesome hair
  Dim shone the golden crown.

"There came a bird this morning,
  And sang 'neath my bower eaves,
Till I dreamed, as his music made me,
  'Ask thou for the Singing Leaves.'"

Then the brow of the King swelled crimson
  With a flush of angry scorn:
"Well have ye spoken, my two eldest,
  And chosen as ye were born,

"But she, like a thing of peasant race,
  That is happy binding the sheaves";
Then he saw her dead mother in her face,
  And said, "Thou shalt have thy leaves."

II

He mounted and rode three days and nights
  Till he came to Vanity Fair,
And 'twas easy to buy the gems and the silk,
  But no Singing Leaves were there.

Then deep in the greenwood rode he,
  And asked of every tree,
"Oh, if you have, ever a Singing Leaf,
  I pray you give it me!"

But the trees all kept their counsel,
  And never a word said they,
Only there sighed from the pine-tops
  A music of seas far away.

Only the pattering aspen
  Made a sound of growing rain,
That fell ever faster and faster.
  Then faltered to silence again.

"Oh, where shall I find a little foot-page
  That would win both hose and shoon,
And will bring to me the Singing Leaves
  If they grow under the moon?"

Then lightly turned him Walter the page,
  By the stirrup as he ran:
"Now pledge you me the truesome word
  Of a king and gentleman,

"That you will give me the first, first thing
  You meet at your castle-gate,
And the Princess shall get the Singing Leaves,
  Or mine be a traitor's fate."

The King's head dropt upon his breast
  A moment, as it might be;
'Twill be my dog, he thought, and said,
  "My faith I plight to thee."

Then Walter took from next his heart
  A packet small and thin,
"Now give you this to the Princess Anne,
  The Singing Leaves are therein."

III

As the King rode in at his castle-gate,
  A maiden to meet him ran,
And "Welcome, father!" she laughed and cried
  Together, the Princess Anne.

"Lo, here the Singing Leaves," quoth he,
  "And woe, but they cost me dear!"
She took the packet, and the smile
  Deepened down beneath the tear.

It deepened down till it reached her heart,
  And then gushed up again,
And lighted her tears as the sudden sun
  Transfigures the summer rain.

And the first Leaf, when it was opened,
  Sang: "I am Walter the page,
And the songs I sing 'neath thy window
  Are my only heritage."

And the second Leaf sang: "But in the land
  That is neither on earth nor sea,
My lute and I are lords of more
  Than thrice this kingdom's fee."

And the third Leaf sang, "Be mine! Be mine!"
  And ever it sang, "Be mine!"
Then sweeter it sang and ever sweeter,
  And said, "I am thine, thine, thine!"

At the first Leaf she grew pale enough,
  At the second she turned aside,
At the third,'twas as if a lily flushed
  With a rose's red heart's tide.

"Good counsel gave the bird," said she,
  "I have my hope thrice o'er,
For they sing to my very heart," she said,
  "And it sings to them evermore."

She brought to him her beauty and truth,
  But and broad earldoms three,
And he made her queen of the broader lands
  He held of his lute in fee.

    _James Russell Lowell._

Awakening

Never yet was a springtime,
  Late though lingered the snow,
That the sap stirred not at the whisper
  Of the south wind, sweet and low;
Never yet was a springtime
  When the buds forgot to blow.

Ever the wings of the summer
  Are folded under the mold;
Life that has known no dying
  Is Love's to have and to hold,
Till sudden, the burgeoning Easter!
  The song! the green and the gold!

    _Margaret E. Sangster._

Wolsey's Farewell to His Greatness

_(From "King Henry VIII")_

Farewell! a long farewell, to all my greatness!
This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth
The tender leaves of hope, to-morrow blossoms,
And bears his blushing honours thick upon him:
The third day comes a frost, a killing frost,
And,--when he thinks, good easy man, full surely
His greatness is a-ripening,--nips his root,
And then he falls, as I do. I have ventured,
Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders,
This many summers in a sea of glory,
But far beyond my depth: my high-blown pride
At length broke under me, and now has left me
Weary, and old with service, to the mercy
Of a rude stream, that must for ever hide me.
Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye:
I feel my heart new opened. O, how wretched
Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours!
There is, betwixt that smile we would aspire to,
That sweet aspect of princes, and their ruin,
More pangs and fears than wars or women have;
And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer,
Never to hope again.

    _William Shakespeare._

The Newsboy

Want any papers, Mister?
  Wish you'd buy 'em of me--
Ten year old, an' a fam'ly,
  An' bizness dull, you see.
Fact, Boss! There's Tom, an' Tibby,
  An' Dad, an' Mam, an' Mam's cat,
None on 'em earning money--
  What do you think of that?

_Couldn't Dad work?_ Why yes, Boss,
  He's workin' for Gov'ment now--
They give him his board for nothin',
  All along of a drunken row,
_An' Mam?_ well, she's in the poor-house,
  Been there a year or so,
So I'm taking care of the others,
  Doing as well as I know.

_Tibby my sister?_ Not much, Boss,
  She's a kitten, a real Maltee;
I picked her up last summer--
  Some boys was a drownin' of she;
Throw'd her inter a hogshead;
  But a p'liceman came along,
So I jest grabbed up the kitten
  And put for home, right strong.

And Tom's my dog; he an' Tibby
  Hain't never quarreled yet--
They sleep in my bed in winter
  An' keeps me warm--you bet!
Mam's cat sleeps in the corner,
  With a piller made of her paw--
Can't she growl like a tiger
  If anyone comes to our straw!

_Oughtn't to live so?_ Why, Mister,
  What's a feller to do?
Some nights, when I'm tired an' hungry,
  Seems as if each on 'em knew--
They'll all three cuddle around me,
  Till I get cheery, and say:
Well, p'raps I'll have sisters an' brothers,
  An' money an' clothes, too, some day.

But if I do git rich, Boss,
  (An' a lecturin' chap one night
Said newsboys could be Presidents
  If only they acted right);
So, if I was President, Mister,
  The very first thing I'd do,
I'd buy poor Tom an' Tibby
  A dinner--an' Mam's cat, too!

None o' your scraps an' leavin's,
  But a good square meal for all three;
If you think I'd skimp my friends, Boss,
  That shows you don't know _me_.
So 'ere's your papers--come take one,
  Gimme a lift if you can--
For now you've heard my story,
You see I'm a fam'ly man!

    _E.T. Corbett._

Parting of Marmion and Douglas

Not far advanced was morning day,
When Marmion did his troop array
  To Surrey's camp to ride;
He had safe conduct for his band,
Beneath the royal seal and hand,
  And Douglas gave a guide:
The ancient Earl, with stately grace,
Would Clara on her palfrey place,
And whispered in an undertone,
"Let the hawk stoop, his prey is flown."
The train from out the castle drew,
But Marmion stopped to bid adieu.--
"Though something I might plain," he said,
"Of cold respect to stranger guest,
Sent hither by your king's behest,
While in Tantallon's towers I stayed,
Part we in friendship from your land,
And, noble Earl, receive my hand."--
But Douglas round him drew his cloak,
Folded his arms, and thus he spoke:--
"My manors, halls, and bowers shall still
Be open, at my sovereign's will,
To each one whom he lists, howe'er
Unmeet to be the owner's peer.
My castles are my king's alone,
From turret to foundation-stone,--
The hand of Douglas is his own;
And never shall in friendly grasp
The hand of such as Marmion clasp."

Burned Marmion's swarthy cheek like fire,
And shook his very frame for ire,
  And--"This to me!" he said,--
"An't were not for thy hoary beard,
Such hand as Marmion's had not spared
  To cleave the Douglas' head!
And, first, I tell thee, haughty Peer,
He who does England's message here,
  Even in thy pitch of pride,
Here in thy hold, thy vassals near,
(Nay, never look upon your lord,
And lay your hands upon your sword,)
  I tell thee thou'rt defied!
And if thou said'st I am not peer
To any lord in Scotland here,
Lowland or Highland, far or near,
  Lord Angus, thou hast lied!"--
On the Earl's cheek the flush of rage
O'ercame the ashen hue of age:
Fierce he broke forth,--"And dar'st thou then
To beard the lion in his den,
  The Douglas in his hall?
And hop'st thou hence unscathed to go?
No, by St. Bride of Bothwell, no!
Up drawbridge, grooms,--what, warder, ho!
  Let the portcullis fall."--
Lord Marmion turned,--well was his need!--
And dashed the rowels in his steed;
Like arrow through the archway sprung;
The ponderous grate behind him rung;
To pass there was such scanty room,
The bars, descending, razed his plume.

The steed along the drawbridge flies.
Just as it trembled on the rise;
Not lighter does the swallow skim
Along the smooth lake's level brim;
And when Lord Marmion reached his band,
He halts, and turns with clenched hand,
And shout of loud defiance pours,
And shook his gauntlet at the towers,
"Horse! horse!" the Douglas cried, "and chase!"
But soon he reined his fury's pace:
"A royal messenger he came,
Though most unworthy of the name.

       *       *       *       *       *

St. Mary, mend my fiery mood!
Old age ne'er cools the Douglas blood,
I thought to slay him where he stood.
'Tis pity of him too," he cried;
"Bold can he speak, and fairly ride:
I warrant him a warrior tried."
With this his mandate he recalls,
And slowly seeks his castle halls.

    _Sir Walter Scott._

The Engineer's Story

Han'som, stranger? Yes, she's purty an' ez peart ez she kin be.
Clever? W'y! she ain't no chicken, but she's good enough for me.
What's her name? 'Tis kind o' common, yit I ain't ashamed to tell,
She's ole "Fiddler" Filkin's daughter, an' her dad he calls her "Nell."

I wuz drivin' on the "Central" jist about a year ago
On the run from Winnemucca up to Reno in Washoe.
There's no end o' skeery places. 'Taint a road fur one who dreams,
With its curves an' awful tres'les over rocks an' mountain streams.

'Twuz an afternoon in August, we hed got behind an hour,
An' wuz tearin' up the mountain like a summer thunder-shower,
Round the bends an' by the ledges, 'bout ez fast ez we could go,
With the mountain peaks above us an' the river down below.

Ez we come nigh to a tres'le 'crost a holler, deep an' wild,
Suddenly I saw a baby, 'twuz the station-keeper's child,
Toddlin' right along the timbers with a bold an' fearless tread,
Right afore the locomotive, not a hundred rods ahead.

I jist jumped an' grabbed the throttle an' I fa'rly held my breath,
Fur I felt I couldn't stop her till the child wuz crushed to death,
When a woman sprang afore me, like a sudden streak o' light.
Caught the boy, an' 'twixt the timbers in a second sank from sight.

I jist whis'l'd all the brakes on. An' we worked with might an' main,
Till the fire flew from the drivers, but we couldn't stop the train,
An' it rumbled on above her. How she screamed ez we rolled by,
An' the river roared below us--I shall hear her till I die!

Then we stopt; the sun wuz shinin'; I ran back along the ridge
An' I found her--dead? No! livin'! She wuz hangin' to the bridge
Where she dropt down thro' the crossties, with one arm about a sill,
An' the other round the baby, who wuz yellin' fur to kill!

So we saved 'em. She wuz gritty. She's ez peart ez she kin be--
Now we're married--she's no chicken, but she's good enough for me.
An' ef eny ask who owns her, w'y, I ain't ashamed to tell--
She's my wife. Ther' ain't none better than ole Filkin's daughter "Nell."

    _Eugene J. Hall._

Small Beginnings

A traveler on the dusty road
  Strewed acorns on the lea;
And one took root and sprouted up,
  And grew into a tree.
Love sought its shade, at evening time,
  To breathe his early vows;
And age was pleased, in heats of noon,
  To bask beneath its boughs;
The dormouse loved its dangling twigs,
  The birds sweet music bore;
It stood a glory in its place,
  A blessing evermore.

A little spring had lost its way
  Amid the grass and fern,
A passing stranger scooped a well
  Where weary men might turn;
He walled it in, and hung with care
  A ladle at the brink;
He thought not of the deed he did,
  But judged that all might drink.
He paused again, and lo! the well,
  By summer never dried,
Had cooled ten thousand parching tongues
  And saved a life beside.

A dreamer dropped a random thought;
  'Twas old, and yet 'twas new;
A simple fancy of the brain,
  But strong in being true.
It shone upon a genial mind,
  And, lo! its light became
A lamp of life, a beacon ray,
  A monitory flame;
The thought was small, its issue great;
  A watch-fire on the hill;
It shed its radiance far adown,
  And cheers the valley still.

A nameless man, amid a crowd
  That thronged the daily mart,
Let fall a word of Hope and Love,
  Unstudied from the heart;
A whisper on the tumult thrown,
  A transitory breath--
It raised a brother from the dust,
  It saved a soul from death.
O germ! O fount! O word of love!
  O thought at random cast!
Ye were but little at the first,
  But mighty at the last.

    _Charles Mackay._

Rain on the Roof

When the humid showers gather over all the starry spheres,
And the melancholy darkness gently weeps in rainy tears,
'Tis a joy to press the pillow of a cottage chamber bed,
And listen to the patter of the soft rain overhead.

Every tinkle on the shingles has an echo in the heart,
And a thousand dreamy fancies into busy being start;
And a thousand recollections weave their bright hues into woof,
As I listen to the patter of the soft rain on the roof.

There in fancy comes my mother, as she used to years agone,
To survey the infant sleepers ere she left them till the dawn.
I can see her bending o'er me, as I listen to the strain
Which is played upon the shingles by the patter of the rain.

Then my little seraph sister, with her wings and waving hair,
And her bright-eyed, cherub brother--a serene, angelic pair--
Glide around my wakeful pillow with their praise or mild reproof,
As I listen to the murmur of the soft rain on the roof.

And another comes to thrill me with her eyes' delicious blue,
I forget, as gazing on her, that her heart was all untrue,
I remember that I loved her as I ne'er may love again,
And my heart's quick pulses vibrate to the patter of the rain.

There is naught in art's bravuras that can work with such a spell,
In the spirit's pure, deep fountains, whence the holy passions swell,
As that melody of nature, that subdued, subduing strain,
Which is played upon the shingles by the patter of the rain!

    _Coates Kinney._

Gunga Din

The "bhisti," or water-carriers attached to regiments in India, is often
one of the most devoted subjects of the British crown, and he is much
appreciated by the men.

You may talk o' gin an' beer
When you're quartered safe out 'ere,
An' you're sent to penny-fights an' Aldershot it;
But if it comes to slaughter
You will do your work on water,
An' you'll lick the bloomin' boots of 'im that's got it.
Now in Injia's sunny clime,
Where I used to spend my time
A-servin' of 'Er Majesty the Queen,
Of all them black-faced crew
The finest man I knew
Was our regimental _bhisti_, Gunga Din.
  He was "Din! Din! Din!
  You limping lump o' brick-dust, Gunga Din!
  Hi! _Slippy hitherao!_
  Water, get it! _Panee lao!_
  You squidgy-nosed, old idol, Gunga Din!"

The uniform 'e wore
Was nothin' much before,
An' rather less than 'arf o' that be'ind,
For a twisty piece o' rag
An' a goatskin water bag
Was all the field-equipment 'e could find,
When the sweatin' troop-train lay
In a sidin' through the day,
Where the 'eat would make your bloomin' eyebrows crawl,
We shouted "Harry By!"
Till our throats were bricky-dry,
Then we wopped 'im 'cause 'e couldn't serve us all,
  It was "Din! Din! Din!
  You 'eathen, where the mischief 'ave you been?
  You put some _juldee_ in it,
  Or I'll _marrow_ you this minute
  If you don't fill up my helmet, Gunga Din!"

'E would dot an' carry one
Till the longest day was done,
An' 'e didn't seem to know the use o' fear.
If we charged or broke or cut,
You could bet your bloomin' nut,
'E'd be waitin' fifty paces right flank rear.
With 'is _mussick_ on 'is back,
'E would skip with our attack,
An' watch us till the bugles made "Retire."
An' for all 'is dirty 'ide
'E was white, clear white, inside
When 'e went to tend the wounded under fire!
  It was "Din! Din! Din!"
  With the bullets kickin' dust-spots on the green.
  When the cartridges ran out,
  You could 'ear the front-files shout:
  "Hi! ammunition-mules an' Gunga Din!"

I sha'n't forgit the night
When I dropped be'ind the fight
With a bullet where my belt-plate should 'a' been.
I was chokin' mad with thirst,
An' the man that spied me first
Was our good old grinnin', gruntin' Gunga Din.
'E lifted up my 'ead,
An' 'e plugged me where I bled,
An' 'e guv me arf-a-pint o' water--green:
It was crawlin' and it stunk,
But of all the drinks I've drunk,
I'm gratefullest to one from Gunga Din.
  It was "Din! Din! Din!
  'Ere's a beggar with a bullet through 'is spleen;
  'E's chawin' up the ground an' 'e's kickin' all around:
  For Gawd's sake git the water, Gunga Din!"

'E carried me away
To where a _dooli_ lay,
An' a bullet come an' drilled the beggar clean.
'E put me safe inside,
An', just before 'e died:
"I 'ope you liked your drink," sez Gunga Din.
So I'll meet 'im later on
In the place where 'e is gone--
Where it's always double drill and no canteen;
'E'll be squattin' on the coals
Givin' drink to pore damned souls,
An' I'll get a swig in Hell from Gunga Din!
  Din! Din! Din!
  You Lazarushian-leather Gunga Din!
  Tho' I've belted you an' flayed you,
  By the livin' Gawd that made you,
  You're a better man than I am, Gunga Din!

    _Rudyard Kipling._

"Panee lao"--Bring water swiftly.

"Harry Ry"-The British soldier's equivalent of "O Brother!"

"Put some juldee in it"--Be quick.

"Marrow you"--Hit you.

"Mussick"--Water-skin.

Warren's Address to the American Soldiers

(_Bunker Hill, June 17, 1775_)

Stand! the ground's your own, my braves!
Will ye give it up to slaves?
Will ye look for greener graves?
  Hope ye mercy still?
What's the mercy despots feel?
Hear it in that battle peal!
Read it on yon bristling steel!
  Ask it--ye who will.

Fear ye foes who kill for hire?
Will ye to your homes retire?
Look behind you! They're afire!
  And, before you, see
Who have done it! From the vale
On they come! and will ye quail?
Leaden rain and iron hail
  Let their welcome be!

In the God of battles trust!
Die we may--and die we must;
But, O where can dust to dust
  Be consigned so well,
As where Heaven its dews shall shed
On the martyred patriot's bed,
And the rocks shall raise their head,
  Of his deeds to tell!

    _John Pierpont._

Mad River

IN THE WHITE MOUNTAINS

_Traveler_

Why dost thou wildly rush and roar,
  Mad River, O Mad River?
Wilt thou not pause and cease to pour
Thy hurrying, headlong waters o'er
  This rocky shelf forever?

What secret trouble stirs thy breast?
  Why all this fret and flurry?
Dost thou not know that what is best
In this too restless world is rest
  From overwork and worry?

_The River_

What wouldst thou in these mountains seek,
  O stranger from the city?
Is it perhaps some foolish freak
Of thine, to put the words I speak
  Into a plaintive ditty?

_Traveler_

Yes; I would learn of thee thy song,
  With all its flowing numbers,
And in a voice as fresh and strong
As thine is, sing it all day long,
  And hear it in my slumbers.

_The River_

A brooklet nameless and unknown
  Was I at first, resembling
A little child, that all alone
Comes venturing down the stairs of stone,
  Irresolute and trembling.

Later, by wayward fancies led,
  For the wide world I panted;
Out of the forest dark and dread
Across the open fields I fled,
  Like one pursued and haunted.

I tossed my arms, I sang aloud,
  My voice exultant blending
With thunder from the passing cloud,
The wind, the forest bent and bowed,
  The rush of rain descending.

I heard the distant ocean call,
  Imploring and entreating;
Drawn onward, o'er this rocky wall
I plunged, and the loud waterfall
  Made answer to the greeting.

And now, beset with many ills,
  A toilsome life I follow;
Compelled to carry from the hills
These logs to the impatient mills
  Below there in the hollow.

Yet something ever cheers and charms
  The rudeness of my labors;
Daily I water with these arms
The cattle of a hundred farms,
  And have the birds for neighbors.

Men call me Mad, and well they may,
  When, full of rage and trouble,
I burst my banks of sand and clay,
And sweep their wooden bridge away,
  Like withered reeds or stubble.

Now go and write thy little rhyme,
  As of thine own creating.
Thou seest the day is past its prime;
I can no longer waste my time;
  The mills are tired of waiting.

    _Henry W. Longfellow._

When Papa Was a Boy

When papa was a little boy you really couldn't find
In all the country round about a child so quick to mind.
His mother never called but once, and he was always there;
He never made the baby cry or pulled his sister's hair.
He never slid down banisters or made the slightest noise,
And never in his life was known to fight with other boys.
He always rose at six o'clock and went to bed at eight,
And never lay abed till noon; and never sat up late.

He finished Latin, French and Greek when he was ten year old,
And knew the Spanish alphabet as soon as he was told.
He never, never thought of play until his work was done,
He labored hard from break of day until the set of sun.
He never scraped his muddy shoes upon the parlor floor,
And never answered, back his ma, and never banged the door.
"But, truly, I could never see," said little Dick Molloy,
"How he could never do these things and really be a boy."

    _E.A. Brininstool._

Which Shall It Be?

"Which shall it be? which shall it be?"
I looked at John,--John looked at me,
(Dear, patient John, who loves me yet
As well as though my locks were jet.)
And when I found that I must speak,
My voice seemed strangely low and weak;
"Tell me again what Robert said";
And then I listening bent my head.
"This is his letter:
                        'I will give
A house and land while you shall live,
If, in return, from out your seven,
One child to me for aye is given.'"

I looked at John's old garments worn,
I thought of all that John had borne
Of poverty, and work, and care,
Which I, though willing, could not share;
Of seven hungry mouths to feed,
Of seven little children's need,
And then of this.
                    "Come John," said I,
"We'll choose among them as they lie
Asleep"; so walking hand in hand,
Dear John and I surveyed our band.

First to the cradle lightly stepped,
Where Lilian, the baby, slept;
Her damp curls lay, like gold alight,
A glory 'gainst the pillow white;
Softly her father stooped to lay
His rough hand down in loving way,
When dream or whisper made her stir,
And huskily he said, "Not _her_."
We stooped beside the trundle-bed,
And one long ray of lamp-light shed
Athwart the boyish faces there,
In sleep so pitiful and fair.
I saw on Jamie's rough red cheek
A tear undried; ere John could speak,
"He's but a baby too," said I,
And kissed him as we hurried by.
Pale, patient Robby's angel face
Still in his sleep bore suffering's trace;
"No, for a thousand crowns not him,"
He whispered, while our eyes were dim.
Poor Dick! sad Dick! our wayward son,
Turbulent, reckless, idle one,--
Could _he_ be spared? "Nay, He who gave
Bids us befriend him to the grave;
Only a mother's heart can be
Patient enough for such as he;
And so," said John, "I would not dare
To send him from her bedside prayer."
Then stole we softly up above,
And knelt by Mary, child of love;
"Perhaps for _her_ 'twould better be,"
I said to John. Quite silently
He lifted up a curl, that lay
Across her cheek in wilful way,
And shook his head; "Nay, love, not thee";
The while my heart beat audibly.
Only one more, our eldest lad,
Trusty and truthful, good and glad,--
So like his father: "No, John, no;
I cannot, will not, let him go!"

And so we wrote, in courteous way,
We could not give one child away;
And afterward toil lighter seemed,
Thinking of that of which we dreamed;
Happy, in truth, that not one face
We missed from its accustomed place;
Thankful to work for all the seven,
Trusting then to One in heaven.

    _Ethel Lynn Beers._

The Battle of Bunker's Hill

It was a starry night in June, the air was soft and still,
When the "minute-men" from Cambridge came, and gathered on the hill;
Beneath us lay the sleeping town, around us frowned the fleet,
But the pulse of freemen, not of slaves, within our bosoms beat;
And every heart rose high with hope, as fearlessly we said,
"We will be numbered with the free, or numbered with the dead!"

"Bring out the line to mark the trench, and stretch it on the sward!"
The trench is marked, the tools are brought, we utter not a word,
But stack our guns, then fall to work with mattock and with spade,
A thousand men with sinewy arms, and not a sound is made;
So still were we, the stars beneath, that scarce a whisper fell;
We heard the red-coat's musket click, and heard him cry, "All's well!"

See how the morn, is breaking; the red is in the sky!
The mist is creeping from the stream that floats in silence by;
The "Lively's" hall looms through the fog, and they our works have spied,
For the ruddy flash and round-shot part in thunder from her side;
And the "Falcon" and the "Cerberus" make every bosom thrill,
With gun and shell, and drum and bell, and boatswain's whistle shrill;
But deep and wider grows the trench, as spade and mattock ply,
For we have to cope with fearful odds, and the time is drawing nigh!

Up with the pine-tree banner! Our gallant Prescott stands
Amid the plunging shells and shot, and plants it with his hands;
Up with the shout! for Putnam comes upon his reeking bay,
With bloody spur and foaming bit, in haste to join the fray.
But thou whose soul is glowing in the summer of thy years,
Unvanquishable Warren, thou, the youngest of thy peers,
Wert born and bred, and shaped and made, to act a patriot's part,
And dear to us thy presence is as heart's blood to the heart!

Hark! from the town a trumpet! The barges at the wharf
Are crowded with the living freight; and now they're pushing off;
With clash and glitter, trump and drum, in all its bright array,
Behold the splendid sacrifice move slowly o'er the bay!
And still and still the barges fill, and still across the deep,
Like thunder clouds along the sky, the hostile transports sweep.

And now they're forming at the Point; and now the lines advance:
We see beneath the sultry sun their polished bayonets glance;
We hear anear the throbbing drum, the bugle-challenge ring;
Quick bursts and loud the flashing cloud, and rolls from wing to wing;
But on the height our bulwark stands, tremendous in its gloom,--
As sullen as a tropic sky, and silent as a tomb.

And so we waited till we saw, at scarce ten rifles' length,
The old vindictive Saxon spite, in all its stubborn strength;
When sudden, flash on flash, around the jagged rampart burst
From every gun the livid light upon the foe accursed.
Then quailed a monarch's might before a free-born people's ire;
Then drank the sward the veteran's life, where swept the yeoman's fire.

Then, staggered by the shot, he saw their serried columns reel,
And fall, as falls the bearded rye beneath the reaper's steel;
And then arose a mighty shout that might have waked the dead,--
"Hurrah! they run! the field is won! Hurrah! the foe is fled!"
And every man hath dropped his gun to clutch a neighbor's hand,
As his heart kept praying all the while for home and native land.

Thrice on that day we stood the shock of thrice a thousand foes,
And thrice that day within our lines the shout of victory rose;
And though our swift fire slackened then, and, reddening in the skies,
We saw from Charlestown's roofs and walls the flamy columns rise,
Yet while we had a cartridge left, we still maintained the fight,
Nor gained the foe one foot of ground upon that blood-stained height.

What though for us no laurels bloom, and o'er the nameless brave
No sculptured trophy, scroll, nor hatch records a warrior grave!
What though the day to us was lost!--upon that deathless page
The everlasting charter stands for every land and age!

For man hath broke his felon bonds, and cast them in the dust,
And claimed his heritage divine, and justified the trust;
While through his rifted prison-bars the hues of freedom pour,
O'er every nation, race and clime, on every sea and shore,
Such glories as the patriarch viewed, when, mid the darkest skies,
He saw above a ruined world the Bow of Promise rise.

    _F.S. Cozzens._

Health and Wealth

We squander health in search of wealth;
  We scheme and toil and save;
Then squander wealth in search of health,
  But only find a grave.
We live, and boast of what we own;
We die, and only get a stone.

The Heartening

It may be that the words I spoke
  To cheer him on his way,
To him were vain, but I myself
  Was braver all that day.

    _Winifred Webb._

Billy's Rose

Billy's dead, and gone to glory--so is Billy's sister Nell:
There's a tale I know about them, were I poet I would tell;
Soft it comes, with perfume laden, like a breath of country air
Wafted down the filthy alley, bringing fragrant odors there.

In that vile and filthy alley, long ago one winter's day,
Dying quick of want and fever, hapless, patient Billy lay,
While beside him sat his sister, in the garret's dismal gloom,
Cheering with her gentle presence Billy's pathway to the tomb.

Many a tale of elf and fairy did she tell the dying child,
Till his eyes lost half their anguish, and his worn, wan features smiled;
Tales herself had heard haphazard, caught amid the Babel roar,
Lisped about by tiny gossips playing round their mothers' door.

Then she felt his wasted fingers tighten feebly as she told
How beyond this dismal alley lay a land of shining gold,
Where, when all the pain was over,--where, when all the tears were shed,--
He would be a white-frocked angel, with a gold thing on his head.

Then she told some garbled story of a kind-eyed Saviour's love,
How He'd built for little children great big playgrounds up above,
Where they sang and played at hopscotch and at horses all the day,
And where beadles and policemen never frightened them away.

This was Nell's idea of heaven,--just a bit of what she'd heard,
With a little bit invented, and a little bit inferred.
But her brother lay and listened, and he seemed to understand,
For he closed his eyes and murmured he could see the promised land.

"Yes," he whispered, "I can see it, I can see it, sister Nell,
Oh, the children look so happy and they're all so strong and well;
I can see them there with Jesus--He is playing with them, too!
Let as run away and join them, if there's room for me and you."

She was eight, this little maiden, and her life had all been spent
In the garret and the alley, where they starved to pay the rent;
Where a drunken father's curses and a drunken mother's blows
Drove her forth into the gutter from the day's dawn to its close.

But she knew enough, this outcast, just to tell this sinking boy,
"You must die before you're able all the blessings to enjoy.
You must die," she whispered, "Billy, and I am not even ill;
But I'll come to you, dear brother,--yes, I promise that I will.

"You are dying, little brother, you are dying, oh, so fast;
I heard father say to mother that he knew you couldn't last.
They will put you in a coffin, then you'll wake and be up there,
While I'm left alone to suffer in this garret bleak and bare."

"Yes, I know it," answered Billy. "Ah, but, sister, I don't mind,
Gentle Jesus will not beat me; He's not cruel or unkind.
But I can't help thinking, Nelly, I should like to take away
Something, sister, that you gave me, I might look at every day.

"In the summer you remember how the mission took us out
To a great green lovely meadow, where we played and ran about,
And the van that took us halted by a sweet bright patch of land,
Where the fine red blossoms grew, dear, half as big as mother's hand.

"Nell, I asked the good kind teacher what they called such flowers as
      those,
And he told me, I remember, that the pretty name was rose.
I have never seen them since, dear--how I wish that I had one!
Just to keep and think of you, Nell, when I'm up beyond the sun."

Not a word said little Nelly; but at night, when Billy slept,
On she flung her scanty garments and then down the stairs she crept.
Through the silent streets of London she ran nimbly as a fawn,
Running on and running ever till the night had changed to dawn.

When the foggy sun had risen, and the mist had cleared away,
All around her, wrapped in snowdrift, there the open country lay.
She was tired, her limbs were frozen, and the roads had cut her feet,
But there came no flowery gardens her poor tearful eyes to greet.

She had traced the road by asking, she had learnt the way to go;
She had found the famous meadow--it was wrapped in cruel snow;
Not a buttercup or daisy, not a single verdant blade
Showed its head above its prison. Then she knelt her down and prayed;

With her eyes upcast to heaven, down she sank upon the ground,
And she prayed to God to tell her where the roses might be found.
Then the cold blast numbed her senses, and her sight grew strangely dim;
And a sudden, awful tremor seemed to seize her every limb.

"Oh, a rose!" she moaned, "good Jesus,--just a rose to take to Bill!"
And as she prayed a chariot came thundering down the hill;
And a lady sat there, toying with a red rose, rare and sweet;
As she passed she flung it from her, and it fell at Nelly's feet.

Just a word her lord had spoken caused her ladyship to fret,
And the rose had been his present, so she flung it in a pet;
But the poor, half-blinded Nelly thought it fallen from the skies,
And she murmured, "Thank you, Jesus!" as she clasped the dainty prize.

Lo! that night from but the alley did a child's soul pass away,
From dirt and sin and misery up to where God's children play.
Lo! that night a wild, fierce snowstorm burst in fury o'er the land,
And at morn they found Nell frozen, with the red rose in her hand.

Billy's dead, and gone to glory--so is Billy's sister Nell;
Am I bold to say this happened in the land where angels dwell,--
That the children met in heaven, after all their earthly woes,
And that Nelly kissed her brother, and said, "Billy, here's your rose"?

    _George R. Sims._

The Old Actor's Story

Mine is a wild, strange story,--the strangest you ever heard;
There are many who won't believe it, but it's gospel, every word;
It's the biggest drama of any in a long, adventurous life;
The scene was a ship, and the actors--were myself and my new-wed wife.

You musn't mind if I ramble, and lose the thread now and then;
I'm old, you know, and I wander--it's a way with old women and men,
For their lives lie all behind them, and their thoughts go far away,
And are tempted afield, like children lost on a summer day.

The years must be five-and-twenty that have passed since that awful night,
But I see it again this evening, I can never shut out the sight.
We were only a few weeks married, I and the wife, you know,
When we had an offer for Melbourne, and made up our minds to go.

We'd acted together in England, traveling up and down
With a strolling band of players, going from town to town;
We played the lovers together--we were leading lady and gent--
And at last we played in earnest, and straight to the church we went.

The parson gave us his blessing, and I gave Nellie the ring,
And swore that I'd love and cherish, and endow her with everything.
How we smiled at that part of the service when I said "I thee endow"!
But as to the "love and cherish," I meant to keep that vow.

We were only a couple of strollers; we had coin when the show was good,
When it wasn't we went without it, and we did the best we could.
We were happy, and loved each other, and laughed at the shifts we made,--
Where love makes plenty of sunshine, there poverty casts no shade.

Well, at last we got to London, and did pretty well for a bit;
Then the business dropped to nothing, and the manager took a flit,--
Stepped off one Sunday morning, forgetting the treasury call;
But our luck was in, and we managed right on our feet to fall.

We got an offer for Melbourne,--got it that very week.
Those were the days when thousands went over to fortune seek,
The days of the great gold fever, and a manager thought the spot
Good for a "spec," and took us as actors among his lot.

We hadn't a friend in England--we'd only ourselves to please--
And we jumped at the chance of trying our fortune across the seas.
We went on a sailing vessel, and the journey was long and rough;
We hadn't been out a fortnight before we had had enough.

But use is a second nature, and we'd got not to mind a storm,
When misery came upon us,--came in a hideous form.
My poor little wife fell ailing, grew worse, and at last so bad
That the doctor said she was dying,--I thought 'twould have sent me mad,--

Dying where leagues of billows seemed to shriek for their prey,
And the nearest land was hundreds--aye, thousands--of miles away.
She raved one night in a fever, and the next lay still as death,
So still I'd to bend and listen for the faintest sign of breath.

She seemed in a sleep, and sleeping, with a smile on her thin, wan face,--
She passed away one morning, while I prayed to the throne of grace.
I knelt in the little cabin, and prayer after prayer I said,
Till the surgeon came and told me it was useless--my wife was dead!

Dead! I wouldn't believe it. They forced me away that night,
For I raved in my wild despairing, the shock sent me mad outright.
I was shut in the farthest cabin, and I beat my head on the side,
And all day long in my madness, "They've murdered her!" I cried.

They locked me away from my fellows,--put me in cruel chains,
It seems I had seized a weapon to beat out the surgeon's brains.
I cried in my wild, mad fury, that he was a devil sent
To gloat o'er the frenzied anguish with which my heart was rent.

I spent that night with the irons heavy upon my wrists,
And my wife lay dead quite near me. I beat with my fettered fists,
Beat at my prison panels, and then--O God!--and then
I heard the shrieks of women and the tramp of hurrying men.

I heard the cry, "Ship afire!" caught up by a hundred throats,
And over the roar the captain shouting to lower the boats;
Then cry upon cry, and curses, and the crackle of burning wood,
And the place grew hot as a furnace, I could feel it where I stood.

I beat at the door and shouted, but never a sound came back,
And the timbers above me started, till right through a yawning crack
I could see the flames shoot upward, seizing on mast and sail,
Fanned in their burning fury by the breath of the howling gale.

I dashed at the door in fury, shrieking, "I will not die!
Die in this burning prison!"--but I caught no answering cry.
Then, suddenly, right upon me, the flames crept up with a roar,
And their fiery tongues shot forward, cracking my prison door.

I was free--with the heavy iron door dragging me down to death;
I fought my way to the cabin, choked with the burning breath
Of the flames that danced around me like man-mocking fiends at play,
And then--O God! I can see it, and shall to my dying day.

There lay my Nell as they'd left her, dead in her berth that night;
The flames flung a smile on her features,--a horrible, lurid light.
God knows how I reached and touched her, but I found myself by her side;
I thought she was living a moment, I forgot that my Nell had died.

In the shock of those awful seconds reason came back to my brain;
I heard a sound as of breathing, and then a low cry of pain;
Oh, was there mercy in heaven? Was there a God in the skies?
The dead woman's lips were moving, the dead woman opened her eyes.

I cursed like a madman raving--I cried to her, "Nell! my Nell!"
They had left us alone and helpless, alone in that burning hell;
They had left us alone to perish--forgotten me living--and she
Had been left for the fire to bear her to heaven, instead of the sea.

I clutched at her, roused her shrieking, the stupor was on her still;
I seized her in spite of my fetters,--fear gave a giant's will.
God knows how I did it, but blindly I fought through the flames and the
      wreck
Up--up to the air, and brought her safe to the untouched deck.

We'd a moment of life together,--a moment of life, the time
For one last word to each other,--'twas a moment supreme, sublime.
From the trance we'd for death mistaken, the heat had brought her to life,
And I was fettered and helpless, so we lay there, husband and wife!

It was but a moment, but ages seemed to have passed away,
When a shout came over the water, and I looked, and lo, there lay,
Right away from the vessel, a boat that was standing by;
They had seen our forms on the vessel, as the flames lit up the sky.

I shouted a prayer to Heaven, then called to my wife, and she
Tore with new strength at my fetters--God helped her, and I was free;
Then over the burning bulwarks we leaped for one chance of life.
Did they save us? Well, here I am, sir, and yonder's my dear old wife.

We were out in the boat till daylight, when a great ship passing by
Took us on board, and at Melbourne landed us by and by.
We've played many parts in dramas since we went on that famous trip,
But ne'er such a scene together as we had on the burning ship!

    _George B. Sims._

The Boy Who Didn't Pass

A sad-faced little fellow sits alone in deep disgrace,
There's a lump arising in his throat, tears streaming down his face;
He wandered from his playmates, for he doesn't want to hear
Their shouts of merry laughter, since the world has lost its cheer;
He has sipped the cup of sorrow, he has drained the bitter glass,
And his heart is fairly breaking; he's the boy who didn't pass.

In the apple tree the robin sings a cheery little song,
But he doesn't seem to hear it, showing plainly something's wrong;
Comes his faithful little spaniel for a romp and bit of play,
But the troubled little fellow sternly bids him go away.
All alone he sits in sorrow, with his hair a tangled mass,
And his eyes are red with weeping; he's the boy who didn't pass.

How he hates himself for failing, he can hear his playmates jeer,
For they've left him with the dullards--gone ahead a half a year,
And he tried so hard to conquer, oh, he tried to do his best,
But now he knows, he's weaker, yes, and duller than the rest.
He's ashamed to tell his mother, for he thinks she'll hate him, too--
The little boy who didn't pass, who failed of getting through.

Oh, you who boast a laughing son, and speak of him as bright,
And you who love a little girl who comes to you at night
With smiling eyes, with dancing feet, with honors from her school,
Turn to that lonely little boy who thinks he is a fool,
And take him kindly by the hand, the dullest in his class,
He is the one who most needs love, the boy who didn't pass.

The Station-Master's Story

Yes, it's a quiet station, but it suits me well enough;
I want a bit of the smooth now, for I've had my share o' rough.
This berth that the company gave me, they gave as the work was light;
I was never fit for the signals after one awful night,
I'd been in the box from a younker, and I'd never felt the strain
Of the lives at my right hand's mercy in every passing train.
One day there was something happened, and it made my nerves go queer,
And it's all through that as you find me the station-master here.

I was on at the box down yonder--that's where we turn the mails,
And specials, and fast expresses, on to the center rails;
The side's for the other traffic--the luggage and local slows.
It was rare hard work at Christmas, when double the traffic grows.
I've been in the box down yonder nigh sixteen hours a day,
Till my eyes grew dim and heavy, and my thoughts went all astray;
But I've worked the points half-sleeping--and once I slept outright,
Till the roar of the Limited woke me, and I nearly died with fright.

Then I thought of the lives in peril, and what might have been their fate
Had I sprung to the points that evening a tenth of a tick too late;
And a cold and ghastly shiver ran icily through my frame
As I fancied the public clamor, the trial, and bitter shame.
I could see the bloody wreckage--I could see the mangled slain--
And the picture was seared for ever, blood-red, on my heated brain.
That moment my nerve was shattered, for I couldn't shut out the thought
Of the lives I held in my keeping, and the ruin that might be wrought.

That night in our little cottage, as I kissed our sleeping child,
My wife looked up from her sewing, and told me, as she smiled,
That Johnny had made his mind up--he'd be a pointsman, too.
"He says when he's big, like daddy, he'll work in the box with you."
I frowned, for my heart was heavy, and my wife she saw the look;
Lord bless you! my little Alice could read me like a book.
I'd to tell her of what had happened, and I said that I must leave,
For a pointsman's arm ain't trusty when terror lurks in his sleeve.

But she cheered me up in a minute, and that night, ere we went to sleep,
She made me give her a promise, which I swore that I'd always keep--
It was always to do my duty. "Do that, and then, come what will,
You'll have no worry." said Alice, "if things go well or ill.
There's something that always tells us the thing that we ought to do"--
My wife was a bit religious, and in with the chapel crew.
But I knew she was talking reason, and I said to myself, says I,
"I won't give in like a coward, it's a scare that'll soon go by."

Now, the very next day the missus had to go to the market town;
She'd the Christmas things to see to, and she wanted to buy a gown.
She'd be gone for a spell, for the Parley didn't come back till eight,
And I knew, on a Christmas Eve, too, the trains would be extra late.
So she settled to leave me Johnny, and then she could turn the key--
For she'd have some parcels to carry, and the boy would be safe with me.
He was five, was our little Johnny, and quiet, and nice, and good--
He was mad to go with daddy, and I'd often promised he should.

It was noon when the missus started,--her train went by my box;
She could see, as she passed my window, her darling's curly locks,
I lifted him up to mammy, and he kissed his little hand,
Then sat, like a mouse, in the corner, and thought it was fairyland.
But somehow I fell a-thinking of a scene that would not fade,
Of how I had slept on duty, until I grew afraid;
For the thought would weigh upon me, one day I might come to lie
In a felon's cell for the slaughter of those I had doomed to die.

The fit that had come upon me, like a hideous nightmare seemed,
Till I rubbed my eyes and started like a sleeper who has dreamed.
For a time the box had vanished--I'd worked like a mere machine--
My mind had been on the wander, and I'd neither heard nor seen,
With a start I thought of Johnny, and I turned the boy to seek,
Then I uttered a groan of anguish, for my lips refused to speak;
There had flashed such a scene of horror swift on my startled sight
That it curdled my blood in terror and sent my red lips white.

It was all in one awful moment--I saw that the boy was lost:
He had gone for a toy, I fancied, some child from a train had tossed;
The local was easing slowly to stop at the station here,
And the limited mail was coming, and I had the line to clear.
I could hear the roar of the engine, I could almost feel its breath,
And right on the center metals stood my boy in the jaws of death;
On came the fierce fiend, tearing straight for the center line,
And the hand that must wreck or save it, O merciful God, was mine!

'Twas a hundred lives or Johnny's. O Heaven! what could I do?--
Up to God's ear that moment a wild, fierce question flew--
"What shall I do, O Heaven?" and sudden and loud and clear
On the wind came the words, "Your duty," borne to my listening ear.
Then I set my teeth, and my breathing was fierce and short and quick.
"My boy!" I cried, but he heard not; and then I went blind and sick;
The hot black smoke of the engine came with a rush before,
I turned the mail to the center, and by it flew with a roar.

Then I sank on my knees in horror, and hid my ashen face--
I had given my child to Heaven; his life was a hundred's grace.
Had I held my hand a moment, I had hurled the flying mail
To shatter the creeping local that stood on the other rail!
Where is my boy, my darling? O God! let me hide my eyes.
How can I look--his father--on that which there mangled lies?
That voice!--O merciful Heaven!--'tis the child's, and he calls my name!
I hear, but I cannot see him, for my eyes are filled with flame.

I knew no more that night, sir, for I fell, as I heard the boy;
The place reeled round, and I fainted,--swooned with the sudden joy.
But I heard on the Christmas morning, when I woke in my own warm bed
With Alice's arms around me, and a strange wild dream in my head,
That she'd come by the early local, being anxious about the lad,
And had seen him there on the metals, and the sight nigh drove her mad--
She had seen him just as the engine of the Limited closed my view,
And she leapt on the line and saved him just as the mail dashed through.

She was back in the train in a second, and both were safe and sound;
The moment they stopped at the station she ran here, and I was found
With my eyes like a madman's glaring, and my face a ghastly white:
I heard the boy, and I fainted, and I hadn't my wits that night.
Who told me to do my duty? What voice was that on the wind?
Was it fancy that brought it to me? or were there God's lips behind?
If I hadn't 'a' done my duty--had I ventured to disobey--
My bonny boy and his mother might have died by my hand that day.

    _George R. Sims._

Hark, Hark! the Lark

_(From "Cymbeline")_

Hark, hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings,
  And Phoebus 'gins arise,
His steeds to water at those springs
  On chaliced flowers that lies;
And winking Mary-buds begin
  To ope their golden eyes:
With every thing that pretty is,
  My lady sweet, arise!
    Arise, arise!

    _William Shakespeare._

Tommy's Prayer

In a dark and dismal alley where the sunshine never came,
Dwelt a little lad named Tommy, sickly, delicate, and lame;
He had never yet been healthy, but had lain since he was born
Dragging out his weak existence well nigh hopeless and forlorn.

He was six, was little Tommy, 'twas just five years ago
Since his drunken mother dropped him, and the babe was crippled so.
He had never known the comfort of a mother's tender care,
But her cruel blows and curses made his pain still worse to bear.

There he lay within the cellar, from the morning till the night,
Starved, neglected, cursed, ill-treated, nought to make his dull life
      bright;
Not a single friend to love him, not a loving thing to love--
For he knew not of a Saviour, or a heaven up above.

'Twas a quiet, summer evening, and the alley, too, was still;
Tommy's little heart was sinking, and he felt so lonely, till,
Floating up the quiet alley, wafted inwards from the street,
Came the sound of some one singing, sounding, oh! so clear and sweet.

Eagerly did Tommy listen as the singing came--
Oh! that he could see the singer! How he wished he wasn't lame.
Then he called and shouted loudly, till the singer heard the sound,
And on noting whence it issued, soon the little cripple found.

'Twas a maiden rough and rugged, hair unkempt, and naked feet,
All her garments torn and ragged, her appearance far from neat;
"So yer called me," said the maiden, "wonder wot yer wants o' me;
Most folks call me Singing Jessie; wot may your name chance to be?"

"My name's Tommy; I'm a cripple, and I want to hear you sing,
For it makes me feel so happy--sing me something, anything,"
Jessie laughed, and answered smiling, "I can't stay here very long,
But I'll sing a hymn to please you, wot I calls the 'Glory Song.'"

Then she sang to him of heaven, pearly gates, and streets of gold,
Where the happy angel children are not starved or nipped with cold;
But where happiness and gladness never can decrease or end,
And where kind and loving Jesus is their Sovereign and their Friend.

Oh! how Tommy's eyes did glisten as he drank in every word
As it fell from "Singing Jessie"--was it true, what he had heard?
And so anxiously he asked her, "Is there really such a place?"
And a tear began to trickle down his pallid little face.

"Tommy, you're a little heathen; why, it's up beyond the sky,
And if yer will love the Saviour, yer shall go there when yer die."
"Then," said Tommy, "tell me, Jessie, how can I the Saviour love,
When I'm down in this 'ere cellar, and He's up in heaven above?"

So the little ragged maiden who had heard at Sunday School
All about the way to heaven, and the Christian's golden rule,
Taught the little cripple Tommy how to love, and how to pray,
Then she sang a "Song of Jesus," kissed his cheek and went away.

Tommy lay within the cellar which had grown so dark and cold,
Thinking all about the children in the streets of shining gold;
And he heeded not the darkness of that damp and chilly room,
For the joy in Tommy's bosom could disperse the deepest gloom.

"Oh! if I could only see it," thought the cripple, as he lay,
"Jessie said that Jesus listens and I think I'll try and pray";
So he put his hands together, and he closed his little eyes,
And in accents weak, yet earnest, sent this message to the skies:--

"Gentle Jesus, please forgive me as I didn't know afore,
That yer cared for little cripples who is weak and very poor,
And I never heard of heaven till that Jessie came to-day
And told me all about it, so I wants to try and pray.

"Yer can see me, can't yer, Jesus? Jessie told me that yer could,
And I somehow must believe it, for it seems so prime and good;
And she told me if I loved you, I should see yer when I die,
In the bright and happy heaven that is up beyond the sky.

"Lord, I'm only just a cripple, and I'm no use here below,
For I heard my mother whisper, she'd be glad if I could go;
And I'm cold and hungry sometimes; and I feel so lonely, too,
Can't yer take me, gentle Jesus, up to heaven along o' you?

"Oh! I'd be so good and patient, and I'd never cry or fret,
And your kindness to me, Jesus, I would surely not forget;
I would love you all I know of, and would never make a noise--
Can't you find me just a corner, where I'll watch the other boys?

"Oh! I think yer'll do it, Jesus, something seems to tell me so,
For I feel so glad and happy, and I do so want to go,
How I long to see yer, Jesus, and the children all so bright!
Come and fetch me, won't yer, Jesus? Come and fetch me home tonight!"

Tommy ceased his supplication, he had told his soul's desire,
And he waited for the answer till his head began to tire;
Then he turned towards his corner and lay huddled in a heap,
Closed his little eyes so gently, and was quickly fast asleep.

Oh, I wish that every scoffer could have seen his little face
As he lay there in the corner, in that damp, and noisome place;
For his countenance was shining like an angel's, fair and bright,
And it seemed to fill the cellar with a holy, heavenly light.

He had only heard of Jesus from a ragged singing girl,
He might well have wondered, pondered, till his brain began to whirl;
But he took it as she told it, and believed it then and there,
Simply trusting in the Saviour, and his kind and tender care.

In the morning, when the mother came to wake her crippled boy,
She discovered that his features wore a look of sweetest joy,
And she shook him somewhat roughly, but the cripple's face was cold--
He had gone to join the children in the streets of shining gold.

Tommy's prayer had soon been answered, and the Angel Death had come
To remove him from his cellar, to his bright and heavenly home
Where sweet comfort, joy, and gladness never can decrease or end,
And where Jesus reigns eternally, his Sovereign and his Friend.

    _John F. Nicholls._

The Two Pictures

It was a bright and lovely summer's morn,
Fair bloomed the flowers, the birds sang softly sweet,
The air was redolent with perfumed balm,
And Nature scattered, with unsparing hand,
Her loveliest graces over hill and dale.
An artist, weary of his narrow room
Within the city's pent and heated walls,
Had wandered long amid the ripening fields,
Until, remembering his neglected themes,
He thought to turn his truant steps toward home.
These led him through a rustic, winding lane,
Lined with green hedge-rows spangled close with flowers,
And overarched by trees of noblest growth.
But when at last he reached the farther end
Of this sweet labyrinth, he there beheld
A vision of such pure, pathetic grace,
That weariness and haste were both obscured,
It was a child--a young and lovely child
With eyes of heavenly hue, bright golden hair,
And dimpled hands clasped in a morning prayer,
Kneeling beside its youthful mother's knee.
Upon that baby brow of spotless snow,
No single trace of guilt, or pain, or woe,
No line of bitter grief or dark despair,
Of envy, hatred, malice, worldly care,
Had ever yet been written. With bated breath,
And hand uplifted as in warning, swift,
The artist seized his pencil, and there traced
In soft and tender lines that image fair:
Then, when 'twas finished, wrote beneath one word,
A word of holiest import--Innocence.

Years fled and brought with them a subtle change,
Scattering Time's snow upon the artist's brow,
But leaving there the laurel wreath of fame,
While all men spake in words of praise his name;
For he had traced full many a noble work
Upon the canvas that had touched men's souls,
And drawn them from the baser things of earth,
Toward the light and purity of heaven.
One day, in tossing o'er his folio's leaves,
He chanced upon the picture of the child,
Which he had sketched that bright morn long before,
And then forgotten. Now, as he paused to gaze,
A ray of inspiration seemed to dart
Straight from those eyes to his. He took the sketch,
Placed it before his easel, and with care
That seemed but pleasure, painted a fair theme,
Touching and still re-touching each bright lineament,
Until all seemed to glow with life divine--
'Twas innocence personified. But still
The artist could not pause. He needs must have
A meet companion for his fairest theme;
And so he sought the wretched haunts of sin,
Through miry courts of misery and guilt,
Seeking a face which at the last was found.
Within a prison cell there crouched a man--
Nay, rather say a fiend--with countenance seamed
And marred by all the horrid lines of sin;
Each mark of degradation might be traced,
And every scene of horror he had known,
And every wicked deed that he had done,
Were visibly written on his lineaments;
Even the last, worst deed of all, that left him here,
A parricide within a murderer's cell.

Here then the artist found him; and with hand
Made skillful by its oft-repeated toil,
Transferred unto his canvas that vile face,
And also wrote beneath it just one word,
A word of darkest import--it was Vice.
Then with some inspiration not his own,
Thinking, perchance, to touch that guilty heart,
And wake it to repentance e'er too late,
The artist told the tale of that bright morn,
Placed the two pictured faces side by side,
And brought the wretch before them. With a shriek
That echoed through those vaulted corridors,
Like to the cries that issue from the lips
Of souls forever doomed to woe,
Prostrate upon the stony floor he fell,
And hid his face and groaned aloud in anguish.
"I was that child once--I, yes, even I--
In the gracious years forever fled,
That innocent and happy little child!
These very hands were raised to God in prayer,
That now are reddened with a mother's blood.
Great Heaven! can such things be? Almighty power,
Send forth Thy dart and strike me where I lie!"

He rose, laid hold upon the artist's arm
And grasped it with demoniac power,
The while he cried: "Go forth, I say, go forth
And tell my history to the tempted youth.
I looked upon the wine when it was red,
I heeded not my mother's piteous prayers,
I heeded not the warnings of my friends,
But tasted of the wine when it was red,
Until it left a demon in my heart
That led me onward, step by step, to this,
This horrible place from which my body goes
Unto the gallows, and my soul to hell!"
He ceased as last. The artist turned and fled;
But even as he went, unto his ears
Were borne the awful echoes of despair,
Which the lost wretch flung on the empty air,
Cursing the demon that had brought him there.

The Two Kinds of People

There are two kinds of people on earth to-day;
Just two kinds of people, no more, I say.

Not the sinner and saint, for it's well understood,
The good are half bad and the bad are half good.

Not the rich and the poor, for to rate a man's wealth,
You must first know the state of his conscience and health.

Not the humble and proud, for in life's little span,
Who puts on vain airs is not counted a man.

Not the happy and sad, for the swift flying years
Bring each man his laughter and each man his tears.

No; the two kinds of people on earth I mean,
Are the people who lift and the people who lean.

Wherever you go, you will find the earth's masses
Are always divided in just these two classes.

And, oddly enough, you will find, too, I ween,
There's only one lifter to twenty who lean.

In which class are you? Are you easing the load
Of overtaxed lifters, who toil down the road?

Or are you a leaner, who lets others share
Your portion of labor, and worry and care?

    _Ella Wheeler Wilcox._

The Sin of Omission

It isn't the thing you do, dear,
  It's the thing you leave undone
That gives you a bit of a heartache
  At the setting of the sun.
The tender word forgotten;
  The letter you did not write;
The flowers you did not send, dear,
  Are your haunting ghosts at night.

The stone you might have lifted
  Out of a brother's way;
The bit of hearthstone counsel
  You were hurried too much to say;
The loving touch of the hand, dear,
  The gentle, winning tone
Which you had no time nor thought for
  With troubles enough of your own.

Those little acts of kindness
  So easily out of mind,
Those chances to be angels
  Which we poor mortals find--
They come in night and silence,
  Each sad, reproachful wraith,
When hope is faint and flagging
  And a chill has fallen on faith.

For life is all too short, dear,
  And sorrow is all too great,
To suffer our slow compassion
  That tarries until too late;
And it isn't the thing you do, dear,
  It's the thing you leave undone
Which gives you a bit of a heartache
  At the setting of the sun,

    _Margaret E. Sangster._

The Bible My Mother Gave Me

Give me that grand old volume, the gift of a mother's love,
Tho' the spirit that first taught me has winged its flight above.
Yet, with no legacy but this, she has left me wealth untold,
Yea, mightier than earth's riches, or the wealth of Ophir's gold.

When a child, I've kneeled beside her, in our dear old cottage home,
And listened to her reading from that prized and cherished tome,
As with low and gentle cadence, and a meek and reverent mien,
God's word fell from her trembling lips, like a presence felt and seen.

Solemn and sweet the counsels that spring from its open page,
Written with all the fervor and zeal of  the prophet age;
Full of the inspiration of the holy bards who trod,
Caring not for the scoffer's scorn, if they gained a soul to God.

Men who in mind were godlike, and have left on its blazoned scroll
Food for all coming ages in its manna of the soul;
Who, through long days of anguish, and nights devoid of ease,
Still wrote with the burning pen of faith its higher mysteries.

I can list that good man yonder, in the gray church by the brook,
Take up that marvelous tale of love, of the story and the Book,
How through the twilight glimmer, from the earliest dawn of time,
It was handed down as an heirloom, in almost every clime.

How through strong persecution and the struggle of evil days
The precious light of the truth ne'er died, but was fanned to a beacon
      blaze.
How in far-off lands, where the cypress bends o'er the laurel bough,
It was hid like some precious treasure, and they bled for its truth, as
      now.

He tells how there stood around it a phalanx none could break,
Though steel and fire and lash swept on, and the cruel wave lapt the stake;
How dungeon doors and prison bars had never damped the flame,
But raised up converts to the creed whence Christian comfort came.

That housed in caves and caverns--how it stirs our Scottish blood!--
The Convenanters, sword in hand, poured forth the crimson flood;
And eloquent grows the preacher, as the Sabbath sunshine falls,
Thro' cobwebbed and checkered pane, a halo on the walls!

That still 'mid sore disaster, in the heat and strife of doubt,
Some bear the Gospel oriflamme, and one by one march out,
Till forth from heathen kingdoms, and isles beyond the sea,
The glorious tidings of the Book spread Christ's salvation free.

So I cling to my mother's Bible, in its torn and tattered boards,
As one of the greatest gems of art, and the king of all other hoards,
As in life the true consoler, and in death ere the Judgment call,
The guide that will lead to the shining shore, where the Father waits
      for all.

Lincoln, the Man of the People

This poem was read by Edwin Markham at the dedication of the Lincoln
Memorial at Washington, D.C., May 30, 1922. Before reading, he said: "No
oration, no poem, can rise to the high level of this historic hour.
Nevertheless, I venture to inscribe this revised version of my Lincoln
poem to this stupendous Lincoln Memorial, to this far-shining monument
of remembrance, erected in immortal marble to the honor of our deathless
martyr--the consecrated statesman, the ideal American, the ever-beloved
friend of humanity."

When the Norn Mother saw the Whirlwind Hour
Greatening and darkening as it hurried on,
She left the Heaven of Heroes and came down
To make a man to meet the mortal need,
She took the tried clay of the common road--
Clay warm yet with the genial heat of Earth,
Dasht through it all a strain of prophecy;
Tempered the heap with thrill of human tears;
Then mixt a laughter with the serious stuff.
Into the shape she breathed a flame to light
That tender, tragic, ever-changing face;
And laid on him a sense of the Mystic Powers,
Moving--all husht--behind the mortal veil.
Here was a man to hold against the world,
A man to match the mountains and the sea.

The color of the ground was in him, the red earth;
The smack and tang of elemental things;
The rectitude and patience of the cliff;
The good-will of the rain that loves all leaves;
The friendly welcome of the wayside well;
The courage of the bird that dares the sea;
The gladness of the wind that shakes the corn;
The pity of the snow that hides all scars;
The secrecy of streams that make their way
Under the mountain to the rifted rock;
The tolerance and equity of light
That gives as freely to the shrinking flower
As to the great oak flaring to the wind--
To the grave's low hill as to the Matterhorn
That shoulders out the sky. Sprung from the West,
He drank the valorous youth of a new world.
The strength of virgin forests braced his mind,
The hush of spacious prairies stilled his soul.
His words were oaks in acorns; and his thoughts
Were roots that firmly gript the granite truth.

Up from log cabin to the Capitol,
One fire was on his spirit, one resolve--
To send the keen ax to the root of wrong,
Clearing a free way for the feet of God,
The eyes of conscience testing every stroke,
To make his deed the measure of a man.
He built the rail-pile as he built the State,
Pouring his splendid strength through every blow;
The grip that swung the ax in Illinois
Was on the pen that set a people free.

So came the Captain with the mighty heart;
And when the judgment thunders split the house,
Wrenching the rafters from their ancient rest,
He held the ridgepole up, and spikt again
The rafters of the Home. He held his place--
Held the long purpose like a growing tree--
Held on through blame and faltered not at praise.
And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down
As when a lordly cedar, green with boughs,
Goes down with a great shout upon the hills,
And leaves a lonesome place against the sky.

    _Edwin Markham._

Our Own

If I had known in the morning
  How wearily all the day
    The words unkind
    Would trouble my mind
  I said when you went away,
I had been more careful, darling,
  Nor given you needless pain;
    But we vex "our own"
    With look and tone
  We may never take back again.

For though in the quiet evening
  You may give me the kiss of peace,
    Yet it might be
    That never for me,
  The pain of the heart should cease.
How many go forth in the morning,
  That never come home at night!
    And hearts have broken
    For harsh words spoken
  That sorrow can ne'er set right.

We have careful thoughts for the stranger,
  And smiles for the sometime guest,
    But oft for "our own"
    The bitter tone,
  Though we love "our own" the best.
Ah, lips with the curve impatient!
  Ah, brow with that look of scorn!
    'Twere a cruel fate,
    Were the night too late
  To undo the work of morn.

    _Margaret E. Sangster._

How Salvator Won

The gate was thrown open, I rode out alone,
More proud than a monarch, who sits on a throne.
I am but a jockey, but shout upon shout
Went up from the people who watched me ride out.
And the cheers that rang forth from that warm-hearted crowd
Were as earnest as those to which monarch e'er bowed.
My heart thrilled with pleasure so keen it was pain,
As I patted my Salvator's soft, silken mane;
And a sweet shiver shot from his hide to my hand
As we passed by the multitude down to the stand.
The great wave of cheering came billowing back
As the hoofs of brave Tenny ran swift down the track,
And he stood there beside us, all bone and all muscle,
Our noble opponent, well trained for the tussle
That waited us there on the smooth, shining course.
My Salvator, fair to the lovers of horse
As a beautiful woman is fair to man's sight--
Pure type of the thoroughbred, clean-limbed and bright--
Stood taking the plaudits as only his due
And nothing at all unexpected or new.

And then there before us as the bright flag is spread,
There's a roar from the grand stand, and Tenny's ahead;
At the sound of the voices that shouted, "A go!"
He sprang like an arrow shot straight from the bow.
I tighten the reins on Prince Charlie's great son;
He is off like a rocket, the race is begun.
Half-way down the furlong their heads are together,
Scarce room 'twixt their noses to wedge in a feather;
Past grand stand, and judges, in neck-to-neck strife,
Ah, Salvator, boy, 'tis the race of your life!
I press my knees closer, I coax him, I urge,
I feel him go out with a leap and a surge;
I see him creep on, inch by inch, stride by stride,
While backward, still backward, falls Tenny beside.
We are nearing the turn, the first quarter is passed--
'Twixt leader and chaser the daylight is cast;
The distance elongates; still Tenny sweeps on,
As graceful and free-limbed and swift as a fawn,
His awkwardness vanished, his muscles all strained--
A noble opponent well born and well trained.

I glanced o'er my shoulder; ha! Tenny! the cost
Of that one second's flagging will be--the race lost;
One second's yielding of courage and strength,
And the daylight between us has doubled its length.
The first mile is covered, the race is mine--no!
For the blue blood of Tenny responds to a blow;
He shoots through the air like a ball from a gun,
And the two lengths between us are shortened to one.
My heart is contracted, my throat feels a lump,
For Tenny's long neck is at Salvator's rump;
And now with new courage grown bolder and bolder,
I see him once more running shoulder to shoulder.
With knees, hands and body I press my grand steed;
I urge him, I coax him, I pray him to heed!
O Salvator! Salvator! List to my calls,
For the blow of my whip will hurt both if it falls.
There's a roar from the crowd like the ocean in storm,
As close to the saddle leaps Tenny's great form;
One mighty plunge, and with knee, limb and hand,
I lift my horse first by a nose past the stand.
We are under the string now--the great race is done--
And Salvator, Salvator, Salvator won!

Cheer, hoary-headed patriarchs; cheer loud, I say;
'Tis the race of a century witnessed to-day!
Though ye live twice the space that's allotted to men
Ye never will see such a grand race again.
Let the shouts of the populace roar like the surf,
For Salvator, Salvator, king of the turf,
He has rivaled the record of thirteen long years;
He has won the first place in the vast line of peers.
'Twas a neck-to-neck contest, a grand, honest race,
And even his enemies grant him his place.
Down into the dust let old records be hurled,
And hang out 2:05 to the gaze of the world!

    _Ella Wheeler Wilcox._

I Got to Go to School

I'd like to hunt the Injuns 't roam the boundless plain!
I'd like to be a pirate an' plow the ragin' main!
An' capture some big island, in lordly pomp to rule;
But I just can't be nothin' cause I got to go to school.

'Most all great men, so I have read, has been the ones 'at got
The least amount o' learnin' by a flickerin' pitch pine knot;
An' many a darin' boy like me grows up to be a fool,
An' never 'mounts to nothin' 'cause he's got to go to school.

I'd like to be a cowboy an' rope the Texas steer!
I'd like to be a sleuth-houn' or a bloody buccaneer!
An' leave the foe to welter where their blood had made a pool;
But how can I git famous? 'cause I got to go to school.

I don't see how my parents kin make the big mistake.
O' keepin' down a boy like me 'at's got a name to make!
It ain't no wonder boys is bad, an' balky as a mule;
Life ain't worth livin' if you've got to waste your time in school.

I'd like to be regarded as "The Terror of the Plains"!
I'd like to hear my victims shriek an' clank their prison chains!
I'd like to face the enemy with gaze serene an' cool,
An' wipe 'em off the earth, but pshaw! I got to go to school.

What good is 'rithmetic an' things, exceptin' jest for girls,
Er them there Fauntleroys 'at wears their hair in pretty curls?
An' if my name is never seen on hist'ry's page, why, you'll
Remember 'at it's all because I got to go to school.

    _Nixon Waterman._

With Little Boy Blue

(_Written after the death of Eugene Field._)

Silent he watched them--the soldiers and dog--
  Tin toys on the little armchair,
Keeping their tryst through the slow going years
  For the hand that had stationed them there;
And he said that perchance the dust and the rust
  Hid the griefs that the toy friends knew,
And his heart watched with them all the dark years,
  Yearning ever for Little Boy Blue.

Three mourners they were for Little Boy Blue,
  Three ere the cold winds had begun;
Now two are left watching--the soldier and dog;
  But for him the vigil is done.
For him too, the angel has chanted a song
  A song that is lulling and true.
He has seen the white gates of the mansions of rest,
  Thrown wide by his Little Boy Blue.

God sent not the Angel of Death for his soul--
  Not the Reaper who cometh for all--
But out of the shadows that curtained the day
  He heard his lost little one call,
Heard the voice that he loved, and following fast,
  Passed on to the far-away strand;
And he walks the streets of the City of Peace,
  With Little Boy Blue by the hand.

    _Sarah Beaumont Kennedy._

The Charge of Pickett's Brigade

In Gettysburg at break of day
  The hosts of war are held in leash
To gird them for the coming fray,
  E'er brazen-throated monsters flame,
  Mad hounds of death that tear and maim.
Ho, boys in blue,
And gray so true,
  Fate calls to-day the roll of fame.

On Cemetery Hill was done
  The clangor of four hundred guns;
Through drifting smoke the morning sun
  Shone down a line of battled gray
  Where Pickett's waiting soldiers lay.
Virginians all,
Heed glory's call,
  You die at Gettysburg to-day,

'Twas Pickett's veteran brigade,
  Great Lee had named; he knew them well;
Oft had their steel the battle stayed.
  O warriors of the eagle plume,
  Fate points for you the hour of doom.
Ring rebel yell,
War cry and knell!
  The stars, to-night, will set in gloom.

O Pickett's men, ye sons of fate,
  Awe-stricken nations bide your deeds.
For you the centuries did wait,
  While wrong had writ her lengthening scroll
  And God had set the judgment roll.
A thousand years
Shall wait in tears,
  And one swift hour bring to goal.

The charge is done, a cause is lost;
  But Pickett's men heed not the din
Of ragged columns battle tost;
  For fame enshrouds them on the field,
  And pierced, Virginia, is thy shield.
But stars and bars
Shall drape thy scars;
  No cause is lost till honor yield.

Hullo

W'en you see a man in woe,
Walk right up and say "Hullo!"
Say "Hullo" and "How d'ye do?
How's the world a-usin' you?"
Slap the fellow on the back;
Bring your hand down with a whack;
Walk right up, and don't go slow;
Grin an' shake, an' say "Hullo!"

Is he clothed in rags? Oh! sho;
Walk right up an' say "Hullo!"
Rags is but a cotton roll
Jest for wrappin' up a soul;
An' a soul is worth a true
Hale and hearty "How d'ye do?"
Don't wait for the crowd to go,
Walk right up and say "Hullo!"

When big vessels meet, they say
They saloot an' sail away.
Jest the same are you an' me
Lonesome ships upon a sea;
Each one sailin' his own log,
For a port behind the fog;
Let your speakin' trumpet blow;
Lift your horn an' cry "Hullo!"

Say "Hullo!" an' "How d'ye do?"
Other folks are good as you.
W'en you leave your house of clay
Wanderin' in the far away,
W'en you travel through the strange
Country t'other side the range,
Then the souls you've cheered will know
Who ye be, an' say "Hullo."

    _Sam Walter Foss._

The Women of Mumbles Head

Bring, novelist, your note-book! bring, dramatist, your pen!
And I'll tell you a simple story of what women do for men.
It's only a tale of a lifeboat, of the dying and the dead,
Of the terrible storm and shipwreck that happened off Mumbles Head!
Maybe you have traveled in Wales, sir, and know it north and south;
Maybe you are friends with the "natives" that dwell at Oystermouth;
It happens, no doubt, that from Bristol you've crossed in a casual way,
And have sailed your yacht in the summer in the blue of Swansea Bay.

Well! it isn't like that in the winter, when the lighthouse stands alone,
In the teeth of Atlantic breakers that foam on its face of stone;
It wasn't like that when the hurricane blew, and the storm-bell tolled,
      or when
There was news of a wreck, and the lifeboat launched, and a desperate cry
      for men.
When in the world did the coxswain shirk? a brave old salt was he!
Proud to the bone of as four strong lads as ever had tasted the sea,
Welshmen all to the lungs and loins, who, about that coast, 'twas said,
Had saved some hundred lives apiece--at a shilling or so a head!

So the father launched the lifeboat, in the teeth of the tempest's roar,
And he stood like a man at the rudder, with an eye on his boys at the oar,
Out to the wreck went the father! out to the wreck went the sons!
Leaving the weeping of women, and booming of signal guns;
Leaving the mother who loved them, and the girls that the sailors love;
Going to death for duty, and trusting to God above!
Do you murmur a prayer, my brothers, when cozy and safe in bed,
For men like these, who are ready to die for a wreck off Mumbles Head?
It didn't go well with the lifeboat! 'twas a terrible storm that blew!
And it snapped the' rope in a second that was flung to the drowning crew;

And then the anchor parted--'twas a tussle to keep afloat!
But the father stuck to the rudder, and the boys to the brave old boat.
Then at last on the poor doomed lifeboat a wave broke mountains high!
"God help us now!" said the father. "It's over, my lads! Good-bye"!
Half of the crew swam shoreward, half to the sheltered caves,
But father and sons were fighting death in the foam of the angry waves.

Up at a lighthouse window two women beheld the storm,
And saw in the boiling breakers a figure--a fighting form;
It might be a gray-haired father, then the women held their breath;
It might be a fair-haired brother, who was having a round with death;
It might be a lover, a husband, whose kisses were on the lips
Of the women whose love is the life of men going down to the sea in ships.
They had seen the launch of the lifeboat, they had seen the worst, and
      more,
Then, kissing each other, these women went down from the lighthouse,
straight to shore.

There by the rocks on the breakers these sisters, hand in hand,
Beheld once more that desperate man who struggled to reach the land,
'Twas only aid he wanted to help him across the wave,
But what are a couple of women with only a man to save?
What are a couple of women? well, more than three craven men
Who stood by the shore with chattering teeth, refusing to stir--and then
Off went the women's shawls, sir; in a second they're torn and rent,
Then knotting them into a rope of love, straight into the sea they went!

"Come back!" cried the lighthouse-keeper. "For God's sake, girls, come
      back!"
As they caught the waves on their foreheads, resisting the fierce attack.
"Come back!" moaned the gray-haired mother, as she stood by the angry sea,
"If the waves take you, my darlings, there's nobody left to me!"

"Come back!" said the three strong soldiers, who still stood faint and
      pale,
"You will drown if you face the breakers! you will fall if you brave the
      gale!"
"_Come back_!" said the girls, "we will not! go tell it to all the town,
We'll lose our lives, God willing, before that man shall drown!"

"Give one more knot to the shawls, Bess! give one strong clutch of your
      hand!
Just follow me, brave, to the shingle, and we'll bring him safe to land!
Wait for the next wave, darling! only a minute more,
And I'll have him safe in my arms, dear, and we'll drag him to the shore."
Up to the arms in the water, fighting it breast to breast,
They caught and saved a brother alive. God bless them! you know the rest--
Well, many a heart beat stronger, and many a tear was shed,
And many a glass was tossed right off to "The Women of Mumbles Head!"

    _Clement Scott._

The Fireman's Story

"'A frightful face'? Wal, yes, yer correct;
  That man on the enjine thar
Don't pack the han'somest countenance--
  Every inch of it sportin' a scar;
But I tell you, pard, thar ain't money enough
  Piled up in the National Banks
To buy that face, nor a single scar--
  (No, I never indulges. Thanks.)

"Yes, Jim is an old-time engineer,
  An' a better one never war knowed!
Bin a runnin' yar since the fust machine
  War put on the Quincy Road;
An' thar ain't a galoot that pulls a plug
  From Maine to the jumpin' off place
That knows more about the big iron hoss
  Than him with the battered-up face.

"'Got hurt in a smash-up'? No,'twar done
  In a sort o' legitimate way;
He got it a-trying to save a gal
  Up yar on the road last May.
I heven't much time for to spin you the yarn,
  For we pull out at two-twenty-five--
Just wait till I climb up an' toss in some coal,
  So's to keep old '90' alive.

"Jim war pullin' the Burlin'ton passenger then,
  Left Quincy a half an hour late,
An' war skimmin' along purty lively, so's not
  To lay out No. 21 freight.
The '90' war more than whoopin' 'em up
  An' a-quiverin' in every nerve!
When all to once Jim yelled 'Merciful God!'
  As she shoved her sharp nose 'round a curve.

"I jumped to his side o' the cab, an' ahead
  'Bout two hundred paces or so
Stood a gal on the track, her hands raised aloft,
  An' her face jist as white as the snow;
It seems she war so paralyzed with the fright
  That she couldn't move for'ard or back,
An' when Jim pulled the whistle she fainted an' fell
  Right down in a heap on the track!

"I'll never forgit till the day o' my death
  The look that cum over Jim's face;
He throw'd the old lever cl'r back like a shot
  So's to slacken the '90's' wild pace,
Then let on the air brakes as quick as a flash,
  An' out through the window he fled,
An' skinned 'long the runnin' board cla'r in front,
  An' lay on the pilot ahead.

"Then just as we reached whar the poor creetur lay,
  He grabbed a tight hold, of her arm,
An' raised her right up so's to throw her one side
  Out o' reach of danger an' harm.
But somehow he slipped an' fell with his head
  On the rail as he throw'd the young lass,
An' the pilot in strikin' him, ground up his face
  In a frightful and horrible mass!

"As soon as we stopped I backed up the train
  To that spot where the poor fellow lay,
An' there sot the gal with his head in her lap
  An' wipin' the warm blood away.
The tears rolled in torrents right down from her eyes,
  While she sobbed like her heart war all broke--
I tell you, my friend, such a sight as that 'ar
  Would move the tough heart of an oak!

"We put Jim aboard an' ran back to town,
  What for week arter week the boy lay
A-hoverin' right in the shadder o' death,
  An' that gal by his bed every day.
But nursin' an' doctorin' brought him around--
  Kinder snatched him right outer the grave--
His face ain't so han'some as 'twar, but his heart
  Remains just as noble an' brave.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Of course thar's a sequel--as story books say--
  He fell dead in love, did this Jim;
But hadn't the heart to ax her to have
  Sich a batter'd-up rooster as him.
She know'd how he felt, and last New Year's day
  War the fust o' leap year as you know,
So she jist cornered Jim an' proposed on the spot,
  An' you bet he didn't say no.

"He's building a house up thar on the hill,
  An' has laid up a snug pile o' cash,
The weddin's to be on the first o' next May--
  Jist a year from the day o' the smash--
The gal says he risked his dear life to save hers,
  An' she'll just turn the tables about,
An' give him the life that he saved--thar's the bell.
  Good day, sir, we're goin' to pull out."

Little Willie's Hearing

Sometimes w'en I am playin' with some fellers 'at I knows,
My ma she comes to call me, 'cause she wants me, I surpose:
An' then she calls in this way: "Willie! Willie, dear! Willee-e-ee!"
An' you'd be surprised to notice how dretful deef I be;
An' the fellers 'at are playin' they keeps mos' orful still,
W'ile they tell me, jus' in whispers: "Your ma is callin', Bill."
But my hearin' don't git better, so fur as I can see,
W'ile my ma stan's there a-callin': "Willie! Willie, dear! Willee-e-ee!"

An' soon my ma she gives it up, an' says: "Well, I'll allow
It's mighty cur'us w'ere that boy has got to, anyhow";
An' then I keep on playin' jus' the way I did before--
I know if she was wantin' much she'd call to me some more.
An' purty soon she comes agin an' says: "Willie! Willee-e-ee!"
But my hearin's jus' as hard as w'at it useter be.
If a feller has good judgment, an' uses it that way,
He can almos' allers manage to git consid'ble play.

But jus' w'ile I am playin', an' prob'ly I am "it,"
They's somethin' diff'rent happens, an' I have to up, an' git,
Fer my pa comes to the doorway, an' he interrup's our glee;
He jus' says, "William Henry!" but that's enough fer me.
You'd be surprised to notice how quickly I can hear
W'en my pa says, "William Henry!" but never "Willie, dear!"
Fer though my hearin's middlin' bad to hear the voice of ma,
It's apt to show improvement w'en the callin' comes from pa.

The Service Flag

Dear little flag in the window there,
Hung with a tear and a woman's prayer,
Child of Old Glory, born with a star--
Oh, what a wonderful flag you are!

Blue is your star in its field of white,
Dipped in the red that was born of fight;
Born of the blood that our forebears shed
To raise your mother, The Flag, o'er-head.

And now you've come, in this frenzied day,
To speak from a window--to speak and say:
"I am the voice of a soldier son,
Gone, to be gone till the victory's won.

"I am the flag of The Service, sir:
The flag of his mother--I speak for her
Who stands by my window and waits and fears,
But hides from the others her unwept tears.

"I am the flag of the wives who wait
For the safe return of a martial mate--
A mate gone forth where the war god thrives,
To save from sacrifice other men's wives.

"I am the flag of the sweethearts true;
The often unthought of--the sisters, too.
I am the flag of a mother's son,
Who won't come home till the victory's won!"

Dear little flag in the window there,
Hung with a tear and a woman's prayer,
Child of Old Glory, born with a star--
Oh, what a wonderful flag you are!

    _William Herschell._

Flying Jim's Last Leap

(_The hero of this tale had once been a famous trapeze performer._)

Cheeriest room, that morn, the kitchen. Helped by Bridget's willing hands,
Bustled Hannah, deftly mixing pies, for ready waiting pans.
Little Flossie flitted round them, and her curling, floating hair
Glinted gold-like, gleamed and glistened, in the sparkling sunlit air;
Slouched a figure o'er the lawn; a man so wretched and forlore,
Tattered, grim, so like a beggar, ne'er had trod that path before.
His shirt was torn, his hat was gone, bare and begrimed his knees,
Face with blood and dirt disfigured, elbows peeped from out his sleeves.
Rat-tat-tat, upon the entrance, brought Aunt Hannah to the door;
Parched lips humbly plead for water, as she scanned his misery o'er;
Wrathful came the dame's quick answer; made him cower, shame, and start
Out of sight, despairing, saddened, hurt and angry to the heart.
"_Drink_! You've had enough, you rascal. Faugh! The smell now makes me
      sick,
Move, you thief! Leave now these grounds, sir, or our dogs will help you
      quick."
Then the man with dragging footsteps hopeless, wishing himself dead,
Crept away from sight of plenty, starved in place of being fed,
Wandered farther from the mansion, till he reached a purling brook,
Babbling, trilling broken music by a green and shady nook,
Here sweet Flossie found him fainting; in her hands were food and drink;
Pale like death lay he before her, yet the child-heart did not shrink;
Then the rags from off his forehead, she with dainty hands offstripped,
In the brooklet's rippling waters, her own lace-trimmed 'kerchief dipped;
Then with sweet and holy pity, which, within her, did not daunt,
Bathed the blood and grime-stained visage of that sin-soiled son of want.
Wrung she then the linen cleanly, bandaged up the wound again
Ere the still eyes opened slowly; white lips murmuring, "Am I sane?"
"Look, poor man, here's food and drink. Now thank our God before you
      take."
Paused he mute and undecided, while deep sobs his form did shake
With an avalanche of feeling, and great tears came rolling down
O'er a face unused to showing aught except a sullen frown;
That "our God" unsealed a fountain his whole life had never known,
When that human angel near him spoke of her God as his own.
"Is it 'cause my aunty grieved you?" Quickly did the wee one ask.
"I'll tell you my little verse then, 'tis a holy Bible task,
It may help you to forgive her: 'Love your enemies and those
Who despitefully may use you; love them whether friends or foes!'"

Then she glided from his vision, left him prostrate on the ground
Conning o'er and o'er that lesson--with a grace to him new found.
Sunlight filtering through green branches as they wind-wave dance and dip,
Finds a prayer his mother taught him, trembling on his crime-stained lip.
Hist! a step, an angry mutter, and the owner of the place,
Gentle Flossie's haughty father, and the tramp stood face to face!
"Thieving rascal! you've my daughter's 'kerchief bound upon your brow;
Off with it, and cast it down here. Come! be quick about it now."
As the man did not obey him, Flossie's father lashed his cheek
With a riding-whip he carried; struck him hard and cut him deep.
Quick the tramp bore down upon him, felled him, o'er him where he lay
Raised a knife to seek his life-blood. Then there came a thought to stay
All his angry, murderous impulse, caused the knife to shuddering fall:
"He's her father; love your en'mies; 'tis 'our God' reigns over all."
At midnight, lambent, lurid flames light up the sky with fiercest beams,
Wild cries, "Fire! fire!" ring through the air, and red like blood each
      flame now seems;
They faster grow, they higher throw weird, direful arms which ever lean
About the gray stone mansion old. Now roars the wind to aid the scene;
The flames yet higher, wilder play. A shudder runs through all around--
Distinctly as in light of day, at topmost window from the ground
Sweet Flossie stands, her golden hair enhaloed now by firelit air.
Loud rang the father's cry: "O God! my child! my child! Will no one dare
For her sweet sake the flaming stair?" Look, one steps forth with muffled
      face,
Leaps through the flames with fleetest feet, on trembling ladder runs a
      race
With life and death--the window gains. Deep silence falls on all around,
Till bursts aloud a sobbing wail. The ladder falls with crashing sound--
A flaming, treacherous mass. O God! she was so young and he so brave!
Look once again. See! see! on highest roof he stands--the fiery wave
Fierce rolling round--his arms enclasp the child--God help him yet to save!
"For life or for eternal sleep,"
He cries, then makes a vaulting leap,
A tree branch catches, with sure aim,
And by the act proclaims his name;
The air was rent, the cheers rang loud,
A rough voice cried from out the crowd,
"Huzza, my boys, well we know him,
None dares that leap but Flying Jim!"
A jail-bird--outlaw--thief, indeed,
Yet o'er them all takes kingly lead.
"Do now your worst," his gasping cry,
"Do all your worst, I'm doomed to die;
I've breathed the flames, 'twill not be long";
Then hushed all murmurs through the throng.
With reverent hands they bore him where
The summer evening's cooling air
Came softly sighing through the trees;
The child's proud father on his knees
Forgiveness sought of God and Jim,
Which dying lips accorded him.
A mark of whip on white face stirred
To gleaming scarlet at his words.
"Forgive them all who use you ill,
She taught me that and I fulfill;
I would her hand might touch my face,
Though she's so pure and I so base."
Low Flossie bent and kissed the brow,
With smile of bliss transfigured now:
Death, the angel, sealed it there,
'Twas sent to God with "mother's prayer."

    _Emma Dunning Banks._

Betty and the Bear

In a pioneer's cabin out West, so they say,
A great big black grizzly trotted one day,
And seated himself on the hearths and began
To lap the contents of a two gallon pan
Of milk and potatoes,--an excellent meal,--
And then looked, about to see what he could steal.
The lord of the mansion awoke from his sleep,
And, hearing a racket, he ventured to peep
Just out in the kitchen, to see what was there,
And was scared to behold a great grizzly bear.

So he screamed in alarm to his slumbering frau,
"Thar's a bar in the kitchen as big's a cow!"
"A what?" "Why, a bar!" "Well murder him, then!"
"Yes, Betty, I will, if you'll first venture in."
So Betty leaped up, and the poker she seized.
While her man shut the door, and against it he squeezed,
As Betty then laid on the grizzly her blows.
Now on his forehead, and now on his nose,
Her man through the key-hole kept shouting within,
"Well done, my brave Betty, now hit him agin,
Now poke with the poker, and' poke his eyes out."
So, with rapping and poking, poor Betty alone
At last laid Sir Bruin as dead as a stone.

Now when the old man saw the bear was no more,
He ventured to poke his nose out of the door,
And there was the grizzly stretched on the floor,
Then off to the neighbors he hastened, to tell
All the wonderful things that that morning befell;
And he published the marvellous story afar,
How "me and my Betty jist slaughtered a bar!
O yes, come and see, all the neighbors they seed it,
Come and see what we did, me and Betty, we did it."

The Graves of a Household

They grew in beauty, side by side,
  They filled one home with glee;---
Their graves are severed, far and wide,
  By mount, and stream and sea.

The same fond mother bent at night
  O'er each fair sleeping brow;
She had each folded flower in sight--
  Where are those dreamers now?

One, 'midst the forest of the West,
  By a dark stream is laid--
The Indian knows his place of rest
  Far in the cedar shade.

The sea, the blue lone sea, hath one--
  He lies where pearls lie deep;
_He_ was the loved of all, yet none
  O'er his low bed may weep.

One sleeps where southern vines are drest
  Above the noble slain:
He wrapped his colors round his breast
  On a blood-red field of Spain.

And one--o'er _her_ the myrtle showers
  Its leaves, by soft winds fanned;
She faded 'midst Italian flowers--
  The last of that bright band.

And parted thus they rest, who play'd
  Beneath the same green tree;
Whose voices mingled as they pray'd
  Around the parent knee.

They that with smiles lit up the hall,
  And cheer'd with song the hearth!--
Alas! for love, if _thou_ wert all,
  And naught beyond, O earth!

    _Felicia Dorothea Hemans._

The Babie

Nae shoon to hide her tiny taes,
  Nae stockings on her feet;
Her supple ankles white as snow,
  Or early blossoms sweet.
Her simple dress of sprinkled pink,
  Her double, dimpled chin;
Her pucker'd lip and bonny mou',
  With nae ane tooth between.
Her een sae like her mither's een,
  Twa gentle, liquid things;
Her face is like an angel's face--
  We're glad she has nae wings.

    _Hugh Miller._

A Legend of the Northland

Away, away in the Northland,
  Where the hours of the day are few,
And the nights are so long in winter,
  They cannot sleep them through;

Where they harness the swift reindeer
  To the sledges, when it snows;
And the children look like bears' cubs
  In their funny, furry clothes:

They tell them a curious story--
  I don't believe 't is true;
And yet you may learn a lesson
  If I tell the tale to you

Once, when the good Saint Peter
  Lived in the world below,
And walked about it, preaching,
  Just as he did, you know;

He came to the door of a cottage,
  In traveling round the earth,
Where a little woman was making cakes,
  And baking them on the hearth;

And being faint with fasting,
  For the day was almost done,
He asked her, from her store of cakes,
  To give him a single one.

So she made a very little cake,
  But as it baking lay,
She looked at it, and thought it seemed
  Too large to give away.

Therefore she kneaded another,
  And still a smaller one;
But it looked, when she turned it over,
  As large as the first had done.

Then she took a tiny scrap of dough,
  And rolled, and rolled it flat;
And baked it thin as a wafer--
  But she couldn't part with that.

For she said, "My cakes that seem too small
  When I eat of them myself,
Are yet too large to give away,"
  So she put them on the shelf.

Then good Saint Peter grew angry,
  For he was hungry and faint;
And surely such a woman
  Was enough to provoke a saint.

And he said, "You are far too selfish
  To dwell in a human form,
To have both food and shelter,
  And fire to keep you warm.

"Now, you shall build as the birds do,
  And shall get your scanty food
By boring, and boring, and boring,
  All day in the hard dry wood,"

Then up she went through the chimney,
  Never speaking a word,
And out of the top flew a woodpecker.
  For she was changed to a bird.

She had a scarlet cap on her head,
  And that was left the same,
Bat all the rest of her clothes were burned
  Black as a coal in the flame.

And every country school boy
  Has seen her in the wood;
Where she lives in the woods till this very day,
  Boring and boring for food.

And this is the lesson she teaches:
  Live not for yourself alone,
Lest the needs you will not pity
  Shall one day be your own.

Give plenty of what is given to you,
  Listen to pity's call;
Don't think the little you give is great,
  And the much you get is small.

Now, my little boy, remember that,
  And try to be kind and good,
When you see the woodpecker's sooty dress,
  And see her scarlet hood.

You mayn't be changed to a bird, though you live
  As selfishly as you can;
But you will be changed to a smaller thing--
  A mean and selfish man.

    _Phoebe Cary._

How Did You Die?

Did you tackle the trouble that came your way
  With a resolute heart and cheerful?
Or hide year face from the light of day
  With a craven soul and fearful?
Oh, a trouble's a ton, or a trouble's an ounce,
  Or a trouble is what you make it,
And it isn't the fact that you're hurt that counts,
  But only how did you take it?

You are beaten to earth? Well, well, what's that?
  Come up with a smiling face,
Its nothing against you to fall down flat,
  But to lie there--that's disgrace.
The harder you're thrown, why, the higher the bounce;
  Be proud of your blackened eye!
It isn't the fact that you're licked that counts;
  It's how did you fight--and why?

And though you be done to the death, what then?
  If you battled the best you could,
If you played your part in the world of men,
  Why, the Critic will call it good.
Death comes with a crawl, or comes with a pounce,
  And whether he's slow or spry,
It isn't the fact that you're dead that counts,
  But only how did you die?

    _Edmund Vance Cooke._

The Children

When the lessons and tasks are all ended,
  And the school for the day is dismissed,
And the little ones gather around me,
  To bid me good-night and be kissed,--
Oh, the little white arms that encircle
  My neck in a tender embrace!
Oh, the smiles that are halos of Heaven,
  Shedding sunshine and love on my face!

And when they, are gone, I sit dreaming
  Of my childhood, too lovely to last;
Of love that my heart will remember
  When it wakes to the pulse of the past;
Ere the world and its wickedness made me
  A partner of sorrow and sin;
When the glory of God was about me,
  And the glory of gladness within.

Oh, my heart grows as weak as a woman's
  And the fountains of feeling will flow,
When I think of the paths, steep and stony
  Where the feet of the dear ones must go.
Of the mountains of sin hanging o'er them,
  Of the tempests of fate blowing wild--
Oh, there's nothing on earth half so holy
  As the innocent heart of a child!

They are idols of hearts and of households,
  They are angels of God in disguise.
His sunlight still sleeps in their tresses,
  His glory still beams in their eyes:
Oh, those truants from earth and from heaven,
  They have made me more manly and mild!
And I know how Jesus could liken
  The Kingdom of God to a child.

Seek not a life for the dear ones
  All radiant, as others have done.
But that life may have just enough shadow
  To temper the glare of the sun;
I would pray God to guard them from evil,
  But my prayer would bound back to myself.
Ah! A seraph may pray for a sinner,
  But the sinner must pray for himself.

The twig is so easily bended,
  I have banished the rule of the rod;
I have taught them the goodness of Knowledge,
  They have taught me the goodness of God.
My heart is a dungeon of darkness,
  Where I shut them from breaking a rule;
My frown is sufficient correction,
  My love is the law of the school.

I shall leave the old house in the autumn
  To traverse the threshold no more,
Ah! how I shall sigh for the dear ones
  That meet me each morn at the door.
I shall miss the good-nights and the kisses,
  And the gush of their innocent glee;
The group on the green and the flowers
  That are brought every morning to me.

I shall miss them at morn and at evening.
  Their song in the school and the street,
I shall miss the low hum of their voices
  And the tramp of their delicate feet.
When the lessons and tasks are all ended,
  And death says the school is dismissed,
May the little ones gather around me
  To bid me good-night and be kissed.

    _Charles M. Dickinson._

The King and the Child

The sunlight shone on walls of stone,
  And towers sublime and tall,
King Alfred sat upon his throne
  Within his council hall.

And glancing o'er the splendid throng,
  With grave and solemn face,
To where his noble vassals stood,
  He saw a vacant place.

"Where is the Earl of Holderness?"
  With anxious look, he said.
"Alas, O King!" a courtier cried,
  "The noble Earl is dead!"

Before the monarch could express
  The sorrow that he felt,
A soldier, with a war-worn face,
  Approached the throne, and knelt.

"My sword," he said, "has ever been,
  O King, at thy command,
And many a proud and haughty Dane
  Has fallen by my hand.

"I've fought beside thee in the field,
  And 'neath the greenwood tree;
It is but fair for thee to give
  Yon vacant place to me."

"It is not just," a statesman cried,
  "This soldier's prayer to hear,
My wisdom has done more for thee
  Than either sword or spear.

"The victories of thy council hall
  Have made thee more renown
Than all the triumphs of the field
  Have given to thy crown.

"My name is known in every land,
  My talents have been thine,
Bestow this Earldom, then, on me,
  For it is justly mine."

Yet, while before the monarch's throne
  These men contending stood,
A woman crossed the floor, who wore
  The weeds of widowhood.

And slowly to King Alfred's feet
  A fair-haired boy she led--
"O King, this is the rightful heir
  Of Holderness," she said.

"Helpless, he comes to claim his own,
  Let no man do him wrong,
For he is weak and fatherless,
  And thou art just and strong."

"What strength or power," the statesman cried,
  "Could such a judgement bring?
Can such a feeble child as this
  Do aught for thee, O King?

"When thou hast need of brawny arms
  To draw thy deadly bows,
When thou art wanting crafty men
  To crush thy mortal foes."

With earnest voice the fair young boy
  Replied: "I cannot fight,
But I can pray to God, O King,
  And God can give thee might!"

The King bent down and kissed the child,
  The courtiers turned away,
"The heritage is thine," he said,
  "Let none thy right gainsay.

"Our swords may cleave the casques of men,
  Our blood may stain the sod,
But what are human strength and power
  Without the help of God?"

    _Eugene J. Hall._

Try, Try Again

'Tis a lesson you should heed,
  Try, try again;
If at first you don't succeed,
  Try, try again;
Then your courage shall appear,
For if you will persevere,
You will conquer, never fear,
  Try, try again.

Once or twice though you should fail,
  Try, try again;
If at last you would prevail,
  Try, try again;
If we strive 'tis no disgrace
Tho' we may not win the race,
What should you do in that case?
  Try, try again.

If you find your task is hard,
  Try, try again;
Time will bring you your reward,
  Try, try again;
All that other folks can do,
Why, with patience, may not you?
Only keep this rule in view,
  Try, try again.

Indian Names

Ye say they all have passed away--that noble race and brave,
That their light canoes have vanished from off the crested wave;
That,'mid the forests where they roamed, there rings no hunter's shout,
But their name is on your waters--ye may not wash it out.

'Tis where Ontario's billow like ocean's surge is curled,
Where strong Niagara's thunders wake the echo of the world;
Where red Missouri bringeth rich tribute from the west,
And Rappahannock sweetly sleeps on green Virginia's breast.

Ye say their cone-like cabins, that clustered o'er the vale,
Have fled away like withered leaves, before the autumn's gale;
But their memory liveth on your hills, their baptism on your shore,
Your everlasting rivers speak their dialect of yore.

Old Massachusetts wears it upon her lordly crown,
And broad Ohio bears it amid his young renown;
Connecticut hath wreathed it where her quiet foliage waves,
And bold Kentucky breathes it hoarse through all her ancient caves.

Wachusett hides its lingering voice within his rocky heart,
And Alleghany graves its tone throughout his lofty chart;
Monadnock on his forehead hoar doth seal the sacred trust;
Your mountains build their monument, though ye destroy their dust.

Ye call those red-browed brethren the insects of an hour,
Crushed like the noteless worm amid the regions of their power;
Ye drive them from their fathers' lands, ye break of faith the seal,
But can ye from the court of heaven exclude their last appeal?

Ye see their unresisting tribes, with toilsome steps and slow,
On through the trackless desert pass, a caravan of woe.
Think ye the Eternal Ear is deaf? His sleepless vision dim?
Think ye the soul's blood may not cry from that far land to Him?

    _Lydia H. Sigourney._

More Cruel Than War

(During the Civil War, a Southern prisoner at Camp Chase in Ohio lay
sick in the hospital. He confided to a friend, Colonel Hawkins of
Tennessee, that he was grieving because his fiancee, a Nashville girl,
had not written to him. The soldier died soon afterward, Colonel Hawkins
having promised to open and answer any mail that came for him. This poem
is in reply to a letter from his friend's fiancee, in which she curtly
broke the engagement.)

Your letter, lady, came too late,
  For heaven had claimed its own;
Ah, sudden change--from prison bars
  Unto the great white throne;
And yet I think he would have stayed,
  To live for his disdain,
Could he have read the careless words
  Which you have sent in vain.

So full of patience did he wait,
  Through many a weary hour,
That o'er his simple soldier-faith
  Not even death had power;
And you--did others whisper low
  Their homage in your ear,
As though among their shallow throng
  His spirit had a peer?

I would that you were by me now,
  To draw the sheet aside
And see how pure the look he wore
  The moment when he died.
The sorrow that you gave to him
  Had left its weary trace,
As 'twere the shadow of the cross
  Upon his pallid face.

"Her love," he said, "could change for me
  The winter's cold to spring."
Ah, trust of fickle maiden's love,
  Thou art a bitter thing!
For when these valleys, bright in May,
  Once more with blossoms wave,
The northern violets shall blow
  Above his humble grave.

Your dole of scanty words had been
  But one more pang to bear
For him who kissed unto the last
  Your tress of golden hair;
I did not put it where he said,
  For when the angels come,
I would not have them find the sign
  Of falsehood in the tomb.

I've read your letter, and I know
  The wiles that you have wrought
To win that trusting heart of his,
  And gained it--cruel thought!
What lavish wealth men sometimes give
  For what is worthless all!
What manly bosoms beat for them
  In folly's falsest thrall!

You shall not pity him, for now
  His sorrow has an end;
Yet would that you could stand with me
  Beside my fallen friend!
And I forgive you for his sake,
  As he--if he be forgiven--
May e'en be pleading grace for you
  Before the court of Heaven.

To-night the cold winds whistle by,
  As I my vigil keep
Within the prison dead-house, where
  Few mourners come to weep.
A rude plank coffin holds his form;
  Yet death exalts his face,
And I would rather see him thus
  Than clasped in your embrace.

To-night your home may shine with light
  And ring with merry song,
And you be smiling as your soul
  Had done no deadly wrong;
Your hand so fair that none would think
  It penned these words of pain;
Your skin so white--would God your heart
  Were half as free from stain.

I'd rather be my comrade dead
  Than you in life supreme;
For yours the sinner's waking dread,
  And his the martyr's dream!
Whom serve we in this life we serve
  In that which is to come;
He chose his way, you--yours; let God
  Pronounce the fitting doom.

    _W.S. Hawkins._

Columbus

A harbor in a sunny, southern city;
Ships at their anchor, riding in the lee;
A little lad, with steadfast eyes, and dreamy,
Who ever watched the waters lovingly.

A group of sailors, quaintly garbed and bearded;
Strange tales, that snared the fancy of the child:
Of far-off lands, strange beasts, and birds, and people,
Of storm and sea-fight, danger-filled and wild.

And ever in the boyish soul was ringing
The urging, surging challenge of the sea,
To dare,--as these men dared, its wrath and danger,
To learn,--as they, its charm and mystery.

Columbus, by the sunny, southern harbor,
You dreamed the dreams that manhood years made true;
Thank God for men--their deeds have crowned the ages--
Who once were little dreamy lads like you.

    _Helen L. Smith._

The September Gale

I'm not a chicken; I have seen
  Full many a chill September,
And though I was a youngster then,
  That gale I well remember;
The day before, my kite-string snapped,
  And I, my kite pursuing,
The wind whisked off my palm-leaf hat;--
  For me two storms were brewing!

It came as quarrels sometimes do,
  When married folks get clashing;
There was a heavy sigh or two,
  Before the fire was flashing,--
A little stir among the clouds,
  Before they rent asunder,--
A little rocking of the trees,
  And then came on the thunder.

Lord! how the ponds and rivers boiled,
  And how the shingles rattled!
And oaks were scattered on the ground,
  As if the Titans battled;
And all above was in a howl,
  And all below a clatter,--
The earth was like a frying-pan.
  Or some such hissing matter.

It chanced to be our washing-day,
  And all our things were drying:
The storm came roaring through the lines,
  And set them all a-flying;
I saw the shirts and petticoats
  Go riding off like witches;
I lost, ah! bitterly I wept,--
  I lost my Sunday breeches!

I saw them straddling through the air,
  Alas! too late to win them;
I saw them chase the clouds, as if
  The devil had been in them;
They were my darlings and my pride,
  My boyhood's only riches,--
"Farewell, farewell," I faintly cried,--
"My breeches! O my breeches!"

That night I saw them in my dreams,
  How changed from what I knew them!
The dews had steeped their faded threads,
  The winds had whistled through them!
I saw the wide and ghastly rents
  Where demon claws had torn them;
A hole was in their amplest part,
  As if an imp had worn them.

I have had many happy years
  And tailors kind and clever,
But those young pantaloons have gone
  Forever and forever!
And not till fate has cut the last
  Of all my earthly stitches,
This aching heart shall cease to mourn
  My loved, my long-lost breeches!

    _O.W. Holmes_

When My Ship Comes In

Somewhere, out on the blue sea sailing,
  Where the winds dance and spin;
Beyond the reach of my eager hailing,
  Over the breakers' din;
Out where the dark storm-clouds are lifting,
Out where the blinding fog is drifting,
Out where the treacherous sand is shifting,
  My ship is coming in.

O, I have watched till my eyes were aching,
  Day after weary day;
O, I have hoped till my heart was breaking
  While the long nights ebbed away;
Could I but know where the waves had tossed her,
Could I but know what storms had crossed her,
Could I but know where the winds had lost her,
  Out in the twilight gray!

But though the storms her course have altered,
  Surely the port she'll win,
Never my faith in my ship has faltered,
  I know she is coming in.
For through the restless ways of her roaming,
Through the mad rush of the wild waves foaming,
Through the white crest of the billows combing,
  My ship is coming in.

Beating the tides where the gulls are flying,
  Swiftly she's coming in:
Shallows and deeps and rocks defying,
  Bravely she's coming in.
Precious the love she will bring to bless me,
Snowy the arms she will bring to caress me,
In the proud purple of kings she will dress me--
  My ship that is coming in.

White in the sunshine her sails will be gleaming,
  See, where my ship comes in;
At masthead and peak her colors streaming,
  Proudly she's sailing in;
Love, hope and joy on her decks are cheering,
Music will welcome her glad appearing,
And my heart will sing at her stately nearing,
  When my ship comes in.

    _Robert Jones Burdette._

Solitude

Laugh, and the world laughs with you,
  Weep, and you weep alone;
For the sad old earth must borrow its mirth,
  But has trouble enough of its own.

Sing, and the hills will answer,
  Sigh, it is lost on the air;
The echoes bound to a joyful sound,
  But shirk from voicing care.

Rejoice and men will seek you;
  Grieve, and they turn and go;
They want full measure of all your pleasure,
  But they do not need your woe.

Be glad, and your friends are many;
  Be sad, and you lose them all,
There are none to decline your nectar'd wine,
  But alone you must drink life's gall.

Feast, and your halls are crowded;
  Fast, and the world goes by;
Succeed and give, and it helps you live,
  But no man can help you die.

There is room in the halls of pleasure
  For a large and lordly train,
But one by one we must all file on
  Through the narrow aisle of pain.

    _Ella Wheeler Wilcox._

Sin of the Coppenter Man

The coppenter man said a wicked word,
  When he hitted his thumb one day,
En I know what it was, because I heard,
  En it's somethin' I dassent say.

He growed us a house with rooms inside it,
  En the rooms is full of floors
It's my papa's house, en when he buyed it,
  It was nothin' but just outdoors.

En they planted stones in a hole for seeds,
  En that's how the house began,
But I guess the stones would have just growed weeds,
  Except for the coppenter man.

En the coppenter man took a board and said
  He'd skin it and make some curls,
En I hung 'em onto my ears en head,
  En they make me look like girls.

En he squinted along one side, he did,
  En he squinted the other side twice,
En then he told me, "You squint it, kid,"
  'Cause the coppenter man's reel nice.

But the coppenter man said a wicked word,
  When he hitted 'his thumb that day;
He said it out loud, too, 'cause I heard,
  En it's something I dassent say.

En the coppenter man said it wasn't bad,
  When you hitted your thumb, kerspat!
En there'd be no coppenter men to be had,
  If it wasn't for words like that.

    _Edmund Vance Cooke_.

The Bells of Ostend

No, I never, till life and its shadows shall end,
Can forget the sweet sound of the bells of Ostend!
The day set in darkness, the wind it blew loud,
And rung as it passed through each murmuring shroud.
My forehead was wet with the foam of the spray,
My heart sighed in secret for those far away;
When slowly the morning advanced from the east,
The toil and the noise of the tempest had ceased;
The peal from a land I ne'er saw, seemed to say,
"Let the stranger forget every sorrow to-day!"
Yet the short-lived emotion was mingled with pain,
I thought of those eyes I should ne'er see again;
I thought of the kiss, the last kiss which I gave,
And a tear of regret fell unseen on the wave;
I thought of the schemes fond affection had planned,
Of the trees, of the towers, of my own native land.
But still the sweet sounds, as they swelled to the air,
Seemed tidings of pleasure, though mournful to bear,
And I never, till life and its shadows shall end,
Can forget the sweet sound of the bells of Ostend!

    _W.L. Bowles._

You Put No Flowers on My Papa's Grave

With sable-draped banners and slow measured tread,
The flower laden ranks pass the gates of the dead;
And seeking each mound where a comrade's form rests
Leave tear-bedewed garlands to bloom, on his breast.
Ended at last is the labor of love;
Once more through the gateway the saddened lines move--
A wailing of anguish, a sobbing of grief,
Falls low on the ear of the battle-scarred chief;
Close crouched by the portals, a sunny-haired child
Besought him in accents with grief rendered wild:

"Oh! sir, he was good, and they say he died brave--
Why, why, did you pass by my dear papa's grave?
I know he was poor, but as kind and as true
As ever marched into the battle with you;
His grave is so humble, no stone marks the spot,
You may not have seen it. Oh, say you did not!
For my poor heart will break if you knew he was there,
And thought him too lowly your offerings to share.
He didn't die lowly--he poured his heart's blood
In rich crimson streams, from the top-crowning sod
Of the breastworks which stood in front of the fight--
And died shouting, 'Onward! for God and the right!'
O'er all his dead comrades your bright garlands wave,
But you haven't put _one_ on _my_ papa's grave.
If mamma were here--but she lies by his side,
Her wearied heart broke when our dear papa died!"

"Battalion! file left! countermarch!" cried the chief,
"This young orphaned maid hath full cause for her grief."
Then up in his arms from the hot, dusty street,
He lifted the maiden, while in through the gate
The long line repasses, and many an eye
Pays fresh tribute of tears to the lone orphan's sigh.
"This way, it is--here, sir, right under this tree;
They lie close together, with just room for me."
"Halt! Cover with roses each lowly green mound;
A love pure as this makes these graves hallowed ground."

"Oh! thank you, kind sir! I ne'er can repay
The kindness you've shown little Daisy to-day;
But I'll pray for you here, each day while I live,
'Tis all that a poor soldier's orphan can give.
I shall see papa soon and dear mamma, too--
I dreamed so last night, and I know 'twill come true;
And they will both bless you, I know, when I say
How you folded your arms round their dear one to-day;
How you cheered her sad heart and soothed it to rest,
And hushed its wild throbs on your strong, noble breast;
And when the kind angels shall call _you_ to come
We'll welcome you there to our beautiful home
Where death never comes his black banners to wave,
And the beautiful flowers ne'er weep o'er a grave."

    _C.E.L. Holmes._

The Two Little Stockings

Two little stockings hung side by side,
Close to the fireside broad and wide.
"Two?" said Saint Nick, as down he came,
Loaded with toys and many a game.
"Ho, ho!" said he, with a laugh of fun,
"I'll have no cheating, my pretty one.

"I know who dwells in this house, my dear,
There's only one little girl lives here."
So he crept up close to the chimney place,
And measured a sock with a sober face;
Just then a wee little note fell out
And fluttered low, like a bird, about.

"Aha! What's this?" said he, in surprise,
As he pushed his specs up close to his eyes,
And read the address in a child's rough plan.
"Dear Saint Nicholas," so it began,
"The other stocking you see on the wall
I have hung up for a child named Clara Hall.

"She's a poor little girl, but very good,
So I thought, perhaps, you kindly would
Fill up her stocking, too, to-night,
And help to make her Christmas bright.
If you've not enough for both stockings there,
Please put all in Clara's, I shall not care."

Saint Nicholas brushed a tear from his eye,
And, "God bless you, darling," he said with a sigh;
Then softly he blew through the chimney high
A note like a bird's, as it soars on high,
When down came two of the funniest mortals
That ever were seen this side earth's portals.

"Hurry up," said Saint Nick, "and nicely prepare
All a little girl wants where money is rare."
Then, oh, what a scene there was in that room!
Away went the elves, but down from the gloom
Of the sooty old chimney came tumbling low
A child's whole wardrobe, from head to toe.

How Santa Clans laughed, as he gathered them in,
And fastened each one to the sock with a pin;
Right to the toe he hung a blue dress,--
"She'll think it came from the sky, I guess,"
Said Saint Nicholas, smoothing the folds of blue,
And tying the hood to the stocking, too.

When all the warm clothes were fastened on,
And both little socks were filled and done,
Then Santa Claus tucked a toy here and there,
And hurried away to the frosty air,
Saying, "God pity the poor, and bless the dear child
Who pities them, too, on this night so wild."

The wind caught the words and bore them on high
Till they died away in the midnight sky;
While Saint Nicholas flew through the icy air,
Bringing "peace and good will" with him everywhere.

    _Sara Keables Hunt._

I Have a Rendezvous with Death

  I have a rendezvous with Death
At some disputed barricade,
When Spring comes back with rustling shade
And apple-blossoms fill the air--
I have a rendezvous with Death
When Spring brings back blue days and fair.

  It may be he shall take my hand
And lead me into his dark land
And close my eyes and quench my breath--
It may be I shall pass him still.
I have a rendezvous with Death
On some scarred slope of battered hill,
When Spring comes round again this year
And the first meadow-flowers appear.

  God knows't were better to be deep
Pillowed in silk and scented down,
Where Love throbs out in blissful sleep,
Pulse nigh to pulse, and breath to breath--
Where hushed awakenings are dear....
But I've a rendezvous with Death
At midnight in some flaming town,
When Spring trips north again this year,
And I to my pledged word am true,
I shall not fail that rendezvous.

    _Alan Seeger._

Let Us Be Kind

  Let us be kind;
The way is long and lonely,
And human hearts are asking for this blessing only--
  That we be kind.
We cannot know the grief that men may borrow,
We cannot see the souls storm-swept by sorrow,
But love can shine upon the way to-day, to-morrow--
  Let us be kind.

  Let us be kind;
This is a wealth that has no measure,
This is of Heaven and earth the highest treasure--
  Let us be kind.
A tender word, a smile of love in meeting,
A song of hope and victory to those retreating,
A glimpse of God and brotherhood while life is fleeting--
  Let us be kind.

  Let us be kind;
Around the world the tears of time are falling,
And for the loved and lost these human hearts are calling--
  Let us be kind.
To age and youth let gracious words be spoken;
Upon the wheel of pain so many lives are broken,
We live in vain who give no tender token--
  Let us be kind.

  Let us be kind;
The sunset tints will soon be in the west,
Too late the flowers are laid then on the quiet breast--
  Let us be kind.
And when the angel guides have sought and found us,
Their hands shall link the broken ties of earth that bound us,
And Heaven and home shall brighten all around us--
  Let us be kind.

    _W. Lomax Childress._

The Water Mill

Oh! listen to the water mill, through all the livelong day,
As the clicking of the wheels wears hour by hour away;
How languidly the autumn wind does stir the withered leaves
As in the fields the reapers sing, while binding up their sheaves!
A solemn proverb strikes my mind, and as a spell is cast,
"The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

The summer winds revive no more leaves strewn o'er earth and main,
The sickle nevermore will reap the yellow garnered grain;
The rippling stream flows on--aye, tranquil, deep and still,
But never glideth back again to busy water mill;
The solemn proverb speaks to all with meaning deep and vast,
"The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

Ah! clasp the proverb to thy soul, dear loving heart and true,
For golden years are fleeting by and youth is passing too;
Ah! learn to make the most of life, nor lose one happy day,
For time will ne'er return sweet joys neglected, thrown away;
Nor leave one tender word unsaid, thy kindness sow broadcast--
"The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

Oh! the wasted hours of life, that have swiftly drifted by,
Alas! the good we might have done, all gone without a sigh;
Love that we might once have saved by a single kindly word,
Thoughts conceived, but ne'er expressed, perishing unpenned, unheard.
Oh! take the lesson to thy soul, forever clasp it fast--
"The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

Work on while yet the sun doth shine, thou man of strength and will,
The streamlet ne'er doth useless glide by clicking water mill;
Nor wait until to-morrow's light beams brightly on thy way,
For all that thou canst call thine own lies in the phrase "to-day."
Possession, power and blooming health must all be lost at last--
"The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

Oh! love thy God and fellowman, thyself consider last,
For come it will when thou must scan dark errors of the past;
Soon will this fight of life be o'er and earth recede from view,
And heaven in all its glory shine, where all is pure and true.
Ah! then thou'lt see more clearly still the proverb deep and vast,
"The mill will never grind again with water that is past."

    _Sarah Doudney._

Why the Dog's Nose Is Always Cold

What makes the dog's nose always cold?
I'll try to tell you, Curls of Gold,
If you will good and quiet be,
And come and stand by mamma's knee.
Well, years and years and years ago--
How many I don't really know--
There came a rain on sea and shore,
Its like was never seen before
Or since. It fell unceasing down,
Till all the world began to drown;
But just before it began to pour,
An old, old man--his name was Noah--
Built him an Ark, that he might save
His family from a wat'ry grave;
And in it also he designed
To shelter two of every kind
Of beast. Well, dear, when it was done,
And heavy clouds obscured the sun,
The Noah folks to it quickly ran,
And then the animals began
To gravely march along in pairs;
The leopards, tigers, wolves and bears,
The deer, the hippopotamuses,
The rabbits, squirrels, elks, walruses,
The camels, goats, cats and donkeys,
The tall giraffes, the beavers, monkeys,
The rats, the big rhinoceroses,
The dromedaries and the horses,
The sheep, and mice and kangaroos,
Hyenas, elephants, koodoos,
And hundreds more-'twould take all day,
My dear, so many names to say--
And at the very, very end
Of the procession, by his friend
And master, faithful dog was seen;
The livelong time he'd helping been,
To drive the crowd of creatures in;
And now, with loud, exultant bark,
He gaily sprang abroad the Ark.
Alas! so crowded was the space
He could not in it find a place;
So, patiently, he turned about,
Stood half way in, half way out,
And those extremely heavy showers
Descended through nine hundred hours
And more; and, darling, at the close,
'Most frozen was his honest nose;
And never could it lose again
The dampness of that dreadful rain.
And that is what, my Curls of Gold,
Made all the doggies' noses cold.

The African Chief

Chained in the market-place he stood,
  A man of giant frame,
Amid the gathering multitude
  That shrunk to hear his name--
All stern of look and strong of limb,
  His dark eye on the ground:--
And silently they gazed on him,
  As on a lion bound.

Vainly, but well, that chief had fought,
  He was a captive now,
Yet pride, that fortune humbles not,
  Was written on his brow.
The scars his dark broad bosom wore
  Showed warrior true and brave;
A prince among his tribe before,
  He could not be a slave.

Then to his conqueror he spake:
  "My brother is a king;
Undo this necklace from my neck,
  And take this bracelet ring,
And send me where my brother reigns,
  And I will fill thy hands
With store of ivory from the plains,
  And gold-dust from the sands."

"Not for thy ivory nor thy gold
  Will I unbind thy chain;
That bloody hand shall never hold
  The battle-spear again.
A price thy nation never gave
  Shall yet be paid for thee;
For thou shalt be the Christian's slave,
  In lands beyond the sea."

Then wept the warrior chief and bade
  To shred his locks away;
And one by one, each heavy braid
  Before the victor lay.
Thick were the platted locks, and long,
  And deftly hidden there
Shone many a wedge of gold among
  The dark and crisped hair.

"Look, feast thy greedy eye with gold
  Long kept for sorest need:
Take it--thou askest sums untold,
  And say that I am freed.
Take it--my wife, the long, long day
  Weeps by the cocoa-tree,
And my young children leave their play,
  And ask in vain for me."

"I take thy gold--but I have made
  Thy fetters fast and strong,
And ween that by the cocoa shade
  Thy wife will wait thee long,"
Strong was the agony that shook
  The captive's frame to hear,
And the proud meaning of his look
  Was changed to mortal fear.

His heart was broken--crazed his brain;
  At once his eye grew wild;
He struggled fiercely with his chain,
  Whispered, and wept, and smiled;
Yet wore not long those fatal bands,
  And once, at shut of day,
They drew him forth upon the sands,
  The foul hyena's prey.

    _William Cullen Bryant._

He Who Has Vision

_Where there is no vision the people perish.--Prov. 29:17._

He who has the vision sees more than you or I;
He who lives the golden dream lives fourfold thereby;
Time may scoff and worlds may laugh, hosts assail his thought,
But the visionary came ere the builders wrought;
Ere the tower bestrode the dome, ere the dome the arch,
He, the dreamer of the dream, saw the vision march!

He who has the vision hears more than you may hear,
Unseen lips from unseen worlds are bent unto his ear;
From the hills beyond the clouds messages are borne,
Drifting on the dews of dream to his heart of morn;
Time awaits and ages stay till he wakes and shows
Glimpses of the larger life that his vision knows!

He who has the vision feels more than you may feel,
Joy beyond the narrow joy in whose realm we reel--
For he knows the stars are glad, dawn and middleday,
In the jocund tide that sweeps dark and dusk away,
He who has the vision lives round and all complete,
And through him alone we draw dews from combs of sweet.

    _Folger McKinsey._

The Children We Keep

The children kept coming one by one,
  Till the boys were five and the girls were three.
And the big brown house was alive with fun,
  From the basement floor to the old roof-tree,
Like garden flowers the little ones grew,
  Nurtured and trained with tenderest care;
Warmed by love's sunshine, bathed in dew,
  They blossomed into beauty rare.

But one of the boys grew weary one day,
  And leaning his head on his mother's breast,
He said, "I am tired and cannot play;
  Let me sit awhile on your knee and rest."
She cradled him close to her fond embrace,
  She hushed him to sleep with her sweetest song,
And rapturous love still lightened his face
  When his spirit had joined the heavenly throng.

Then the eldest girl, with her thoughtful eyes,
  Who stood where the "brook and the river meet,"
Stole softly away into Paradise
  E'er "the river" had reached her slender feet.
While the father's eyes on the graves were bent,
  The mother looked upward beyond the skies:
"Our treasures," she whispered, "were only lent;
  Our darlings were angels in earth's disguise."

The years flew by, and the children began
  With longings to think of the world outside,
And as each in turn became a man,
  The boys proudly went from the father's side.
The girls were women so gentle and fair,
  That lovers were speedy to woo and to win;
And with orange-blooms in their braided hair,
  Their old home they left, new homes to begin.

So, one by one the children have gone--
  The boys were five, the girls were three;
And the big brown house is gloomy and alone,
  With but two old folks for its company.
They talk to each other about the past,
  As they sit together at eventide,
And say, "All the children we keep at last
  Are the boy and girl who in childhood died."

    _Mrs. E.V. Wilson._

The Stranger on the Sill

Between broad fields of wheat and corn
Is the lowly home where I was born;
The peach-tree leans against the wall,
And the woodbine wanders over all;
There is the shaded doorway still,--
But a stranger's foot has crossed the sill.

There is the barn--and, as of yore,
I can smell the hay from the open door,
And see the busy swallows throng,
And hear the pewee's mournful song;
But the stranger comes--oh! painful proof--
His sheaves are piled to the heated roof.

There is the orchard--the very trees
Where my childhood knew long hours of ease,
And watched the shadowy moments run
Till my life imbibed more shade than sun:
The swing from the bough still sweeps the air,--
But the stranger's children are swinging there.

There bubbles the shady spring below,
With its bulrush brook where the hazels grow;
'Twas there I found the calamus root,
And watched the minnows poise and shoot,
And heard the robin lave his wing:--
But the stranger's bucket is at the spring.

Oh, ye who daily cross the sill,
Step lightly, for I love it still!
And when you crowd the old barn eaves,
Then think what countless harvest sheaves
Have passed within' that scented door
To gladden eyes that are no more.

Deal kindly with these orchard trees;
And when your children crowd your knees,
Their sweetest fruit they shall impart,
As if old memories stirred their heart:
To youthful sport still leave the swing,
And in sweet reverence hold the spring.

    _Thomas Buchanan Read._

The Old Man In the Model Church

Well, wife, I've found the _model_ church! I worshiped there to-day!
It made me think of good old times before my hair was gray;
The meetin'-house was fixed up more than they were years ago.
But then I felt, when I went in, it wasn't built for show.

The sexton didn't seat me away back by the door;
He knew that I was old and deaf, as well as old and poor;
He must have been a Christian, for he led me boldly through
The long aisle of that crowded church to find a pleasant pew.

I wish you'd heard that singin'; it had the old-time ring;
The preacher said, with trumpet voice: "Let all the people sing!"
The tune was "Coronation," and the music upward rolled,
Till I thought I heard the angels striking all their harps of gold.

My deafness seemed to melt away; my spirit caught the fire;
I joined my feeble, trembling voice with that melodious choir,
And sang as in my youthful days: "Let angels prostrate fall,
Bring forth the royal diadem, and crown Him Lord of all."

I tell you, wife, it did me good to sing that hymn once more;
I felt like some wrecked mariner who gets a glimpse of shore;
I almost wanted to lay down this weatherbeaten form,
And anchor in that blessed port forever from the storm.

_The preachin'_? Well, I can't just tell all that the preacher said;
I know it wasn't written; I know it wasn't read;
He hadn't time to read it, for the lightnin' of his eye
Went flashin' long from pew to pew, nor passed a sinner by.

The sermon wasn't flowery; 'twas simple Gospel truth;
It fitted poor old men like me; it fitted hopeful youth;
'Twas full of consolation, for weary hearts that bleed;
'Twas full of invitations, to Christ and not to creed.

The preacher made sin hideous in Gentiles and in Jews;
He shot the golden sentences down in the finest pews;
And--though I can't see very well--I saw the falling tear
That told me hell was some ways off, and heaven very near.

How swift the golden moments fled within that holy place!
How brightly beamed the light of heaven from every happy face!
Again I longed for that sweet time when friend shall meet with friend--
"When congregations ne'er break up, and Sabbaths have no end."

I hope to meet that minister--that congregation, too--
In that dear home beyond the stars that shine from heaven's blue;
I doubt not I'll remember, beyond life's evenin' gray,
The happy hour of worship in that model church today.

Dear wife, the fight will soon be fought; the vict'ry soon be won;
The shinin' goal is just ahead; the race is nearly run;
O'er the river we are nearin', they are throngin' to the shore,
To shout our safe arrival where the weary weep no more.

    _John H. Yates._

The Volunteer Organist

The gret big church wuz crowded full uv broadcloth an' of silk,
An' satins rich as cream thet grows on our ol' brindle's milk;
Shined boots, biled shirts, stiff dickeys, an' stove-pipe hats were there,
An' doodes 'ith trouserloons so tight they couldn't kneel down in prayer.

The elder in his poolpit high, said, as he slowly riz:
"Our organist is kept' to hum, laid up 'ith roomatiz,
An' as we hev no substitoot, as brother Moore ain't here,
Will some 'un in the congregation be so kind's to volunteer?"

An' then a red-nosed, blear-eyed tramp, of low-toned, rowdy style,
Give an interductory hiccup, an' then swaggered up the aisle.
Then thro' that holy atmosphere there crep' a sense er sin,
An' thro' thet air of sanctity the odor uv ol' gin.

Then Deacon Purington he yelled, his teeth all set on edge:
"This man perfanes the house of God! W'y, this is sacrilege!"
The tramp didn' hear a word he said, but slouched 'ith stumblin' feet,
An' stalked an' swaggered up the steps, an' gained the organ seat.

He then went pawin' thro' the keys, an' soon there rose a strain
Thet seemed to jest bulge out the heart, an' 'lectrify the brain;
An' then he slapped down on the thing 'ith hands an' head an' knees,
He slam-dashed his hull body down kerflop upon the keys.

The organ roared, the music flood went sweepin' high an' dry,
It swelled into the rafters, an' bulged out into the sky;
The ol' church shook and staggered, an' seemed to reel an' sway,
An' the elder shouted "Glory!" an' I yelled out "Hooray!!"

An' then he tried a tender strain that melted in our ears,
Thet brought up blessed memories and drenched 'em down 'ith tears;
An' we dreamed uv ol' time kitchens, 'ith Tabby on the mat,
Uv home an' luv an' baby days, an' Mother, an' all that!

An' then he struck a streak uv hope--a song from souls forgiven--
Thet burst from prison bars uv sin, an' stormed the gates uv heaven;
The morning stars together sung--no soul wuz left alone--
We felt the universe wuz safe, an' God was on His throne!

An' then a wail of deep despair an' darkness come again,
An' long, black crape hung on the doors uv all the homes uv men;
No luv, no light, no joy, no hope, no songs of glad delight,
An' then--the tramp, he swaggered down an' reeled out into the night!

But we knew he'd tol' his story, tho' he never spoke a word,
An' it was the saddest story thet our ears had ever heard;
He had tol' his own life history, an' no eye was dry thet day,
W'en the elder rose an' simply said: "My brethren, let up pray."

    _Sam Walter Foss._

The Finding of the Lyre

There lay upon the ocean's shore
What once a tortoise served to cover;
A year and more, with rush and roar,
The surf had rolled it over,
Had played with it, and flung it by,
As wind and weather might decide it,
Then tossed it high where sand-drifts dry
Cheap burial might provide it.
It rested there to bleach or tan,
The rains had soaked, the suns had burned it;
With many a ban the fisherman
Had stumbled o'er and spurned it;
And there the fisher-girl would stay,
Conjecturing with her brother
How in their play the poor estray
Might serve some use or other.

So there it lay, through wet and dry,
As empty as the last new sonnet,
Till by and by came Mercury,
And, having mused upon it,
"Why, here," cried he, "the thing of things
In shape, material, and dimension!
Give it but strings, and, lo, it sings,
A wonderful invention!"

So said, so done; the chords he strained,
And, as his fingers o'er them hovered,
The shell disdained a soul had gained,
The lyre had been discovered.
O empty world that round us lies,
Dead shell, of soul and thought forsaken,
Brought we but eyes like Mercury's,
In thee what songs should waken!

    _James Russel Lowell._

The High Tide (1571)

(_Or "The Brides of Enderby"_)

The old mayor climbed the belfry tower,
  The ringers rang by two, by three;
"Pull, if ye never pulled before;
  Good ringers, pull your best," quoth he.
"Play uppe, play uppe O Boston bells!
Play all your changes, all your swells,
  Play uppe 'The Brides of Enderby.'"

Men say it was a stolen tyde--
  The Lord that sent it, He knows all;
But in myne ears doth still abide
  The message that the bells let fall:
And there was naught of strange, beside
The flight of mews ans peewits pied
  By millions crouched on the old sea-wall.

I sat and spun within the doore,
  My thread break off, I raised myne eyes;
The level sun, like ruddy ore,
  Lay sinking in the barren skies,
And dark against day's golden death
She moved where Lindis wandereth,
My sonne's faire wife, Elizabeth.

"Cusha! Cusha!" all along;
Ere the early dews were falling,
Farre away I heard her song.
"Cusha! Cusha!" all along;
Where the reedy Lindis floweth,
  Floweth, floweth,
From the meads where melick groweth
Faintly came her milking song:

"Cusha! Cusha! Cusha!" calling,
"For the dews will soone be falling;
Leave your meadow grasses mellow,
  Mellow, mellow;
Quit your cowslips, cowslips yellow;
Come uppe Whitefoot, come uppe Lightfoot,
Quit the stalks of parsley hollow,
  Hollow, hollow;
Come uppe Jetty, rise and follow,
From the clovers lift your head;
Come uppe Whitefoot, come uppe Lightfoot,
Come uppe Jetty, rise and follow,
Jetty, to the milking shed."

If it be long, ay, long ago,
  When I beginne to think howe long,
Againe I hear the Lindis flow,
  Swift as an arrowe, sharp and strong;
And all the aire, it seemeth mee,
Bin full of floating bells (sayeth she),
That ring the tune of Enderby.

Alle fresh the level pasture lay,
  And not a shadowe mote be seene,
Save where full fyve good miles away
  The steeple towered from out the greene;
And lo! the great bell farre and wide
Was heard in all the country side
That Saturday at eventide.

The swanherds where there sedges are
  Moved on in sunset's golden breath,
The shepherde lads I heard affare,
  And my sonne's wife, Elizabeth;
Till floating o'er the grassy sea
Came down that kindly message free,
The "Brides of Mavis Enderby."

Then some looked uppe into the sky,
  And all along where Lindis flows
To where the goodly vessels lie,
  And where the lordly steeple shows,
They sayde, "And why should this thing be?
What danger lowers by land or sea?
They ring the tune of Enderby!

"For evil news from Mablethorpe,
  Of pyrate galleys warping downe;
For shippes ashore beyond the scorpe,
  They have not spared to wake the towne;
But while the west bin red to see,
And storms be none, and pyrates flee,
Why ring 'The Brides of Enderby'?"

I looked without, and lo! my sonne
  Came riding down with might and main:
He raised a shout as he drew on,
  Till all the welkin rang again,
"Elizabeth! Elizabeth!"
(A sweeter woman ne'er drew breath
Than my sonne's wife, Elizabeth.)

"The old sea wall (he cried) is downe,
  The rising tide comes on apace,
And boats adrift in yonder towne
  Go sailing uppe the market-place."
He shook as one that looks on death:
"God save you, mother!" straight he saith,
"Where is my wife, Elizabeth?"

"Good sonne, where Lindis winds away,
  With her two bairns I marked her long;
And ere yon bells beganne to play
  Afar I heard her milking song."
He looked across the grassy lea,
To right, to left, "Ho, Enderby!"
They rang "The Brides of Enderby"!

With that he cried and beat his breast;
  For, lo! along the river's bed
A mighty eygre reared his crest,
  And uppe the Lindis raging sped.
It swept with thunderous noises loud;
Shaped like a curling snow-white cloud,
Or like a demon in a shroud.

And rearing Lindis backward pressed,
  Shook all her trembling bankes amaine,
Then madly at the eygre's breast
  Flung uppe her weltering walls again.
Then bankes came downe with ruin and rout--
Then beaten foam flew round about--
Then all the mighty floods were out.

So farre, so fast the eygre drave,
  The heart had hardly time to beat,
Before a shallow seething wave
  Sobbed in the grasses at oure feet.
The feet had hardly time to flee
Before it brake against the knee,
And all the world was in the sea.

Upon the roofe we sat that night,
  The noise of bells went sweeping by;
I marked the lofty beacon light
  Stream from the church tower, red and high,--
A lurid mark and dread to see;
And awesome bells they were to mee,
That in the dark rang "Enderby."

They rang the sailor lads to guide
  From roofe to roofe who fearless rowed;
And I--my sonne was at my side,
  And yet the ruddy beacon glowed;
And yet he moaned beneath his breath,
"Oh, come in life, or come in death!
Oh, lost! my love, Elizabeth."

And didst thou visit him no more?
  Thou didst, thou didst, my daughter deare;
The waters laid thee at his doore,
  Ere yet the early dawn was clear;
Thy pretty bairns in fast embrace,
The lifted sun shone on thy face,
Downe drifted to thy dwelling-place.

That flow strewed wrecks about the grass,
  That ebbe swept out the flocks to sea;
A fatal ebbe and flow, alas!
  To manye more than myne and me:
But each will mourn his own (she saith),
And sweeter woman ne'er drew breath
Than my sonne's wife, Elizabeth.

I shall never hear her more
By the reedy Lindis shore,
"Cusha! Cusha! Cusha!" calling
Ere the early dews be falling;
I shall never hear her song,
"Cusha! Cusha!" all along,
Where the sunny Lindis floweth,
  Goeth, floweth;
From the meads where melick groweth,
When the water winding down,
Onward floweth to the town.

I shall never see her more
Where the reeds and rushes quiver,
  Shiver, quiver;
Stand beside the sobbing river,
Sobbing, throbbing, in its falling
To the sandy lonesome shore;
I shall never hear her calling,
"Leave your meadow grasses mellow,
  Mellow, mellow;
Quit your cowslips, cowslips yellow;
Come uppe Whitefoot, come uppe Lightfoot;
Quit your pipes of parsley hollow,
  Hollow, hollow;
Come uppe Lightfoot, rise and follow;
  Lightfoot, Whitefoot,
From your clovers lift the head;
Come uppe Jetty, follow, follow,
Jetty, to the milking-shed."

    _Jean Ingelow._

September Days

O month of fairer, rarer days
Than Summer's best have been;
When skies at noon are burnished blue,
And winds at evening keen;
When tangled, tardy-blooming things
From wild waste places peer,
And drooping golden grain-heads tell
That harvest-time is near.

Though Autumn tints amid the green
Are gleaming, here and there,
And spicy Autumn odors float
Like incense on the air,
And sounds we mark as Autumn's own
Her nearing steps betray,
In gracious mood she seems to stand
And bid the Summer stay.

Though 'neath the trees, with fallen leaves
The sward be lightly strown,
And nests deserted tell the tale
Of summer bird-folk flown;
Though white with frost the lowlands lie
When lifts the morning haze,
Still there's a charm in every hour
Of sweet September days.

    _Helen L. Smith_

The New Year

Who comes dancing over the snow,
  His soft little feet all bare and rosy?
Open the door, though the wild wind blow,
  Take the child in and make him cozy,
Take him in and hold him dear,
Here is the wonderful glad New Year.

    _Dinah M. Craik_

An "If" For Girls

(_With apologies to Mr. Rudyard Kipling_.)

If you can dress to make yourself attractive,
  Yet not make puffs and curls your chief delight;
If you can swim and row, be strong and active,
  But of the gentler graces lose not sight;
If you can dance without a craze for dancing,
  Play without giving play too strong a hold,
Enjoy the love of friends without romancing,
  Care for the weak, the friendless and the old;

If you can master French and Greek and Latin,
  And not acquire, as well, a priggish mien,
If you can feel the touch of silk and satin
  Without despising calico and jean;
If you can ply a saw and use a hammer,
  Can do a man's work when the need occurs,
Can sing when asked, without excuse or stammer,
  Can rise above unfriendly snubs and slurs;

If you can make good bread as well as fudges,
  Can sew with skill and have an eye for dust,
If you can be a friend and hold no grudges,
  A girl whom all will love because they must;

If sometime you should meet and love another
  And make a home with faith and peace enshrined,
And you its soul--a loyal wife and mother--
  You'll work out pretty nearly to my mind
The plan that's been developed through the ages,
  And win the best that life can have in store,
You'll be, my girl, the model for the sages--
  A woman whom the world will bow before.

    _Elizabeth Lincoln Otis._

Boy and Girl of Plymouth

Little lass of Plymouth,--gentle, shy, and sweet;
Primly, trimly tripping down the queer old street;
Homespun frock and apron, clumsy buckled shoe;
Skirts that reach your ankles, just as Mother's do;
Bonnet closely clinging over braid and curl;
Modest little maiden,--Plymouth's Pilgrim girl!

Little lad of Plymouth, stanchly trudging by;
Strong your frame, and sturdy; kind and keen your eye;
Clad in belted doublet, buckles at your knee;
Every garment fashioned as a man's might be;
Shoulder-cloak and breeches, hat with bell-shaped crown;
Manly little Pilgrim,--boy of Plymouth town!

Boy and girl of Plymouth, brave and blithe, and true;
Finer task than yours was, children never knew;
Sharing toil and hardship in the strange, new land;
Hope, and help, and promise of the weary band;
Grave the life around you, scant its meed of joy;
Yours to make it brighter,--Pilgrim girl and boy!

    _Helen L. Smith_.

Work: A Song of Triumph

Work!
  Thank God for the might of it,
  The ardor, the urge, the delight of it,
  Work that springs from the heart's desire,
  Setting the brain and the soul on fire--
  Oh, what is so good as the heat of it,
  And what is so glad as the beat of it,
  And what is so kind as the stern command,
  Challenging brain and heart and hand?

Work!
  Thank God for the pride of it,
  For the beautiful, conquering tide of it,
  Sweeping the life in its furious flood,
  Thrilling the arteries, cleansing the blood,
  Mastering stupor and dull despair,
  Moving the dreamer to do and dare--
  Oh, what is so good as the urge of it,
  And what is so glad as the surge of it,
  And what is so strong as the summons deep,
  Rousing the torpid soul from sleep?

Work!
  Thank God for the pace of it,
  For the terrible, swift, keen race of it,
  Fiery steeds in full control,
  Nostrils a-quiver to reach the goal.
  Work, the power that drives behind,
  Guiding the purposes, taming the mind,
  Holding the runaway wishes back,
  Reining the will to one steady track,
  Speeding the energies, faster, faster,
  Triumphing ever over disaster;
  Oh, what is so good as the pain of it,
  And what is so great as the gain of it,
  And what is so kind as the cruel goad,
  Forcing us on through the rugged road?

Work!
  Thank God for the swing of it,
  For the clamoring, hammering ring of it,
  Passion of labor daily hurled
  On the mighty anvils of the world.
  Oh, what is so fierce as the flame of it?
  And what is so huge as the aim of it?
  Thundering on through dearth and doubt,
  Calling the plan of the Maker out,
  Work, the Titan; Work, the friend,
  Shaping the earth to a glorious end,
  Draining the swamps and blasting hills,
  Doing whatever the Spirit wills--
  Rending a continent apart,
  To answer the dream of the Master heart.
  Thank God for a world where none may shirk--
  Thank God for the splendor of Work!

    _Angela Morgan._

Reply to "A Woman's Question"

(_"A Woman's Question" is given on page 129 of Book I, "Poems Teachers
Ask For_.")

You say I have asked for the costliest thing
  Ever made by the Hand above--
A woman's heart and a woman's life,
  And a woman's wonderful love.

That I have written your duty out,
  And, man-like, have questioned free--
You demand that I stand at the bar of your soul,
  While you in turn question me.

And when I ask you to be my wife,
  The head of my house and home,
Whose path I would scatter with sunshine through life,
  Thy shield when sorrow shall come--

You reply with disdain and a curl of the lip,
  And point to my coat's missing button,
And haughtily ask if I want a _cook_,
  To serve up my _beef_ and my _mutton_.

'Tis a _king_ that you look for. Well, I am not he,
  But only a plain, earnest man,
Whose feet often shun the hard path they should tread,
  Often shrink from the gulf they should span.

'Tis hard to believe that the rose will fade
  From the cheek so full, so fair;
'Twere harder to think that a heart proud and cold
  Was ever reflected there.

True, the rose will fade, and the leaves will fall,
  And the Autumn of life will come;
But the heart that I give thee will be true as in May,
  Should I make it thy shelter, thy home.

Thou requir'st "all things that are good and true;
  All things that a man should be";
Ah! lady, my _truth_, in return, doubt not,
  For the rest, I leave it to thee.

    _Nettie H. Pelham._

The Romance of Nick Van Stann

I cannot vouch my tale is true,
Nor say, indeed, 'tis wholly new;
But true or false, or new or old,
I think you'll find it fairly told.
A Frenchman, who had ne'er before
Set foot upon a foreign shore,
Weary of home, resolved to go
And see what Holland had to show.
He didn't know a word of Dutch,
But that could hardly grieve him much;
He thought, as Frenchmen always do,
That all the world could "parley-voo."
At length our eager tourist stands
Within the famous Netherlands,
And, strolling gaily here and there,
In search of something rich or rare,
A lordly mansion greets his eyes;
"How beautiful!" the Frenchman cries,
And, bowing to the man who sate
In livery at the garden gate,
"Pray, Mr. Porter, if you please,
Whose very charming grounds are these?
And, pardon me, be pleased to tell
Who in this splendid house may dwell."
To which, in Dutch, the puzzled man

"Thanks!" said the Gaul; "the owner's taste
Is equally superb and chaste;
So fine a house, upon my word,
Not even Paris can afford.
With statues, too, in every niche;
Of course Monsieur Van Stann is rich,
And lives, I warrant, like a king,--
Ah! wealth mast be a charming thing!"
In Amsterdam the Frenchman meets
A thousand wonders in the streets,
But most he marvels to behold
A lady dressed in silk and gold;
Gazing with rapture on the dame,
He begs to know the lady's name,
And hears, to raise his wonders more,
The very words he heard before!
"Mercie!" he cries; "well, on my life,
Milord has got a charming wife;
'Tis plain to see, this Nick Van Stann
Must be a very happy man."

Next day our tourist chanced to pop
His head within a lottery shop,
And there he saw, with staring eyes,
The drawing of the mammoth prize.
"Ten millions! 'tis a pretty sum;
I wish I had as much at home:
I'd like to know, as I'm a sinner,
What lucky fellow is the winner?"
Conceive our traveler's amaze
To hear again the hackneyed phrase.
"What? no! not Nick Van Stann again?
Faith! he's the luckiest of men.
You may be sure we don't advance
So rapidly as that in France:
A house, the finest in the land;
A lovely garden, nicely planned;
A perfect angel of a wife,
And gold enough to last a life;
There never yet was mortal man
So blest--as Monsieur Nick Van Stann!"

Next day the Frenchman chanced to meet
A pompous funeral in the street;
And, asking one who stood close by
What nobleman had pleased to die,
Was stunned to hear the old reply.
The Frenchman sighed and shook his head,
"Mon Dieu! poor Nick Van Stann is dead;
With such a house, and such a wife,
It must be hard to part with life;
And then, to lose that mammoth prize,--
He wins, and, pop,--the winner dies!
Ah, well! his blessings came so fast,
I greatly feared they could not last:
And thus, we see, the sword of Fate
Cuts down alike the small and great."

    _John G. Saxe._

Armageddon

Marching down to Armageddon--
  Brothers, stout and strong!
Let us cheer the way we tread on,
  With a soldier's song!
Faint we by the weary road,
  Or fall we in the rout,
Dirge or Paean, Death or Triumph!--
  Let the song ring out!

We are they who scorn the scorners--
  Love the lovers--hate
None within the world's four corners--
  All must share one fate;
We are they whose common banner
  Bears no badge nor sign,
Save the Light which dyes it white--
The Hope that makes it shine.

We are they whose bugle rings,
  That all the wars may cease;
We are they will pay the Kings
  Their cruel price for Peace;
We are they whose steadfast watchword
  Is what Christ did teach--
"Each man for his Brother first--
  And Heaven, then, for each."

We are they who will not falter--
  Many swords or few--
Till we make this Earth the altar
  Of a worship new;
We are they who will not take
  From palace, priest or code,
A meaner Law than "Brotherhood"--
  A lower Lord than God.

Marching down to Armageddon--
  Brothers, stout and strong!
Ask not why the way we tread on
  Is so rough and long!
God will tell us when our spirits
  Grow to grasp His plan!
Let us do our part to-day--
  And help Him, helping Man!

Shall we even curse the madness
  Which for "ends of State"
Dooms us to the long, long sadness
  Of this human hate?
Let us slay in perfect pity
  Those that must not live;
Vanquish, and forgive our foes--
  Or fall--and still forgive!

We are those whose unpaid legions,
  In free ranks arrayed,
Massacred in many regions--
  Never once were stayed:
We are they whose torn battalions,
  Trained to bleed, not fly,
Make our agonies a triumph,--
  Conquer, while we die!

Therefore, down to Armageddon--
  Brothers, bold and strong;
Cheer the glorious way we tread on,
  With this soldier song!
Let the armies of the old Flags
  March in silent dread!
Death and Life are one to us,
  Who fight for Quick and Dead!

    _Edwin Arnold._

Picciola

It was a sergeant old and gray,
  Well singed and bronzed from siege and pillage.
Went tramping in an army's wake
  Along the turnpike of the village.

For days and nights the winding host
  Had through the little place been marching,
And ever loud the rustics cheered,
  Till every throat was hoarse and parching.

The squire and farmer, maid and dame,
  All took the sight's electric stirring,
And hats were waved and staves were sung,
  And kerchiefs white were countless whirring.

They only saw a gallant show
  Of heroes stalwart under banners,
And, in the fierce heroic glow,
  'Twas theirs to yield but wild hosannas.

The sergeant heard the shrill hurrahs,
  Where he behind in step was keeping;
But, glancing down beside the road,
  He saw a little maid sit weeping.

"And how is this?" he gruffly said,
  A moment pausing to regard her;--
"Why weepest thou, my little chit?"
  And then she only cried the harder.

"And how is this, my little chit?"
  The sturdy trooper straight repeated,
"When all the village cheers us on,
  That you, in tears, apart are seated?

"We march two hundred thousand strong,
  And that's a sight, my baby beauty,
To quicken silence into song
  And glorify the soldier's duty."

"It's very, very grand, I know,"
  The little maid gave soft replying;
"And father, mother, brother too,
  All say 'Hurrah' while I am crying;

"But think, oh, Mr. Soldier, think,
  How many little sisters' brothers
Are going all away to fight,
  And may be killed, as well as others!"

"Why, bless thee, child," the sergeant said,
  His brawny hand her curls caressing,
"'Tis left for little ones like thee
  To find that war's not all a blessing."

And "Bless thee!" once again he cried,
  Then cleared his throat and looked indignant
And marched away with wrinkled brow
  To stop the struggling tear benignant.

And still the ringing shouts went up
  From doorway, thatch, and fields of tillage;
The pall behind the standard seen
  By one alone of all the village.

The oak and cedar bend and writhe
  When roars the wind through gap and braken;
But 'tis the tenderest reed of all
  That trembles first when Earth is shaken.

    _Robert Henry Newell._

The King's Ring

Once in Persia reigned a king
Who upon his signet ring
Graved a maxim true and wise
Which, if held before his eyes,
Gave him counsel at a glance
Fit for every change and chance.
Solemn words; and these are they:
"Even this shall pass away."

Trains of camels through the sand
Brought him gems from Samarcand,
Fleets of galleys through the seas
Brought him pearls to match with these;
But he counted not his gain--
Treasurer of the mine and main,
"What is wealth?" the king would say;
"Even this shall pass away."

In the revels of his court
At the zenith of the sport,
When the palms of all his guests
Burned with clapping at his jests,
He, amid his figs and wine,
Cried: "O loving friends of mine!
Pleasures come, but not to stay,
Even this shall pass away."

Fighting on a furious field
Once a javelin pierced his shield;
Soldiers with loud lament
Bore him bleeding to his tent,
Groaning with his tortured side.
"Pain is hard to bear," he cried;
"But with patience day by day,
Even this shall pass away."

Struck with palsy, sere and old,
Waiting at the gates of gold,
Spake he with his dying breath:
"Life is done, but what is death?"
Then, in answer to the king,
Fell a sunbeam on his ring,
Showing by a heavenly ray:
"Even this shall pass away."

    _Theodore Tilton._

Leaving the Homestead

You're going to leave the homestead, John,
  You're twenty-one to-day:
And very sorry am I, John,
  To see you go away.
You've labored late and early, John,
  And done the best you could;
I ain't going to stop you, John,
  I wouldn't if I could.

Yet something of your feelings, John,
  I s'pose I'd ought to know,
Though many a day has passed away--
  'Twas forty years ago--
When hope was high within me, John,
  And life lay all before,
That I, with strong and measured stroke,
  "Cut loose" and pulled from shore.

The years they come and go, my boy,
  The years they come and go;
And raven locks and tresses brown
  Grow white as driven snow.
My life has known its sorrows, John,
  Its trials and troubles sore;
Yet God withal has blessed me, John,
  "In basket and in store."

But one thing let me tell you, John,
  Before you make a start,
There's more in being honest, John,
  Twice o'er than being smart.
Though rogues may seem to flourish, John,
  And sterling worth to fail,
Oh! keep in view the good and true;
  'Twill in the end prevail.

Don't think too much of money, John,
  And dig and delve and plan,
And rake and scrape in every shape,
  To hoard up all you can.
Though fools may count their riches, John,
  In dollars and in cents,
The best of wealth is youth and health,
  And good sound common sense.

And don't be mean and stingy, John,
  But lay a little by
Of what you earn; you soon will learn
  How fast 'twill multiply.
So when old age comes creeping on,
  You'll have a goodly store
Of wealth to furnish all your needs--
  And maybe something more.

There's shorter cuts to fortune, John,
  We see them every day;
But those who save their self-respect
  Climb up the good old way.
"All is not gold that glitters," John,
  And makes the vulgar stare,
And those we deem the richest, John,
  Have oft the least to spare.

Don't meddle with your neighbors, John,
  Their sorrows or their cares;
You'll find enough to do, my boy,
  To mind your own affairs.
The world is full of idle tongues--
  You can afford to shirk!
There's lots of people ready, John,
  To do such dirty work.

And if amid the race for fame
  You win a shining prize,
The humbler work of honest men
  You never should despise;
For each one has his mission, John,
  In life's unchanging plan--
Though lowly be his station, John,
  He is no less a man.

Be good, be pure, be noble, John;
  Be honest, brave, be true;
And do to others as you would
  That they should do to you;
And put your trust in God, my boy,
  Though fiery darts be hurled;
Then you can smile at Satan's rage,
  And face a frowning world.

Good-by! May Heaven guard and bless
  Your footsteps day by day;
The old house will be lonesome, John,
  When you are gone away.
The cricket's song upon the hearth
  Will have a sadder tone;
The old familiar spots will be
  So lonely when you're gone.

Bernardo Del Carpio

King Alphonso of Asturias had imprisoned the Count Saldana, about the
time of the birth of the Count's son Bernardo. In an effort to secure
his father's release, Bernardo, when old enough, took up arms. Finally
the King offered Bernardo possession of his father's person, in exchange
for the Castle of Carpio and all the King's subjects there imprisoned.
The cruel trick played by the King on Bernardo is here described.

The warrior bowed his crested head, and tamed his heart of fire,
And sued the haughty king to free his long-imprisoned sire;
"I bring thee here my fortress-keys, I bring my captive train,
I pledge thee faith, my liege, my lord!--oh break my father's chain!"
"Rise, rise! even now thy father comes, a ransomed man this day;
Mount thy good horse; and thou and I will meet him on his way."

Then lightly rose that loyal son, and bounded on his steed,
And urged, as if with lance in rest, the charger's foamy speed.
And lo! from far, as on they pressed, there came a glittering band,
With one that midst them stately rode, as leader in the land:
"Now haste, Bernardo, haste! for there, in very truth, is he,
The father whom thy faithful heart hath yearned so long to see."

His dark eye flashed, his proud breast heaved, his cheek's hue came and
      went;
He reached that gray-haired chieftain's side, and there, dismounting, bent;
A lowly knee to earth he bent, his father's hand he took--
What was there in its touch that all his fiery spirit shook?
That hand was cold,--a frozen thing,--it dropped from his like lead!
He looked up to the face above,--the face was of the dead!
A plume waved o'er the noble brow,--the brow was fixed and white,
He met, at last, his father's eyes, but in them was no sight!

Up from the ground he sprang and gazed, but who could paint that gaze?
They hushed their very hearts that saw its horror and amaze.
They might have chained him, as before that stony form he stood,
For the power was stricken from his arm, and from his lip the blood.
"Father!" at length he murmured low, and wept like childhood then;
Talk not of grief till thou hast seen the tears of warlike men!

He thought on all his glorious hopes, and all his young renown;
He flung the falchion from his side, and in the dust sat down.
Then covering with his steel-gloved hands his darkly mournful brow:
"No more, there is no more," he said, "to lift the sword for now;
My king is false, my hope betrayed, my father--oh, the worth,
The glory, and the loveliness, are passed away from earth!
I thought to stand where banners waved, my sire, beside thee, yet!
I would that there our kindred blood on Spain's free soil had met!
Thou wouldst have known my spirit then;--for thee my fields were won;
And thou hast perished in thy chains, as though thou hadst no son!"

Then, starting from the ground once more, he seized the monarch's rein,
Amidst the pale and 'wildered looks of all the courtier train;
And, with a fierce, o'ermastering grasp, the rearing war-horse led,
And sternly set them face to face, the king before the dead:
"Came I not forth, upon thy pledge, my father's hand to kiss?
Be still, and gaze thou on, false king! and tell me what is this?
The voice, the glance, the heart I sought--give answer, where are they?
If thou wouldst clear thy perjured soul, send life through this cold clay!
Into these glassy eyes put light; be still! keep down thine ire;
Bid these white lips a blessing speak, this earth is not my sire.
Give me back him for whom I strove, for whom my blood was shed!
Thou canst not?--and a king!--his dust be mountains on thy head."

He loosed the steed--his slack hand fell; upon the silent face
He cast one long, deep, troubled look, then turned from that sad place.
His hope was crushed, his after fate untold in martial strain;
His banner led the spears no more, amidst the hills of Spain.

    _Felicia Hemans._

Mizpah

Go thou thy way, and I go mine,
  Apart--but not afar.
Only a thin veil hangs between
  The pathways where we are,
And God keep watch 'tween thee and me
  This is my prayer.
He looks thy way--He looketh mine
  And keeps us near.

I know not where thy road may lie
  Nor which way mine will be,
If thine will lead through parching sands
  And mine beside the sea.
Yet God keeps watch 'tween thee and me,
  So never fear.
He holds thy hand--He claspeth mine
  And keeps us near.

Should wealth and fame perchance be thine
  And my lot lowly be,
Or you be sad and sorrowful
  And glory be for me,
Yet God keep watch 'tween thee and me,
  Both are his care.
One arm round me and one round thee
  Will keep us near.

I sigh sometimes to see thy face
  But since this may not be
I leave thee to the love of Him
  Who cares for thee and me.
"I'll keep ye both beneath My wings,"
  This comforts--dear.
One wing o'er thee--and one o'er me,
  So we are near.

And though our paths be separate
  And thy way be not mine--
Yet coming to the mercy seat
  My soul shall meet with thine.
And "God keep watch 'tween thee and me"
  I'll whisper there.
He blesses me--He blesses thee
  And we are near.

God

O Thou eternal One! whose presence bright
All space doth occupy, all motion guide--
Unchanged through time's all-devastating flight!
Thou only God--there is no God beside!
Being above all beings! Mighty One,
Whom none can comprehend and none explore,
Who fill'st existence with Thyself alone--
Embracing all, supporting, ruling o'er,--
Being whom we call God, and know no more!

In its sublime research, philosophy
May measure out the ocean-deep--may count
The sands or the sun's rays--but, God! for Thee
There is no weight nor measure; none can mount
Up to thy mysteries:* Reason's brightest spark,
Though kindled by Thy light, in vain would try
To trace Thy counsels, infinite and dark:
And thought is lost ere thought can soar so high,
Even like past moments in eternity.

Thou from primeval nothingness didst call
First chaos, then existence--Lord! in Thee
Eternity had its foundation; all
Sprung forth from Thee--of light, joy, harmony,
Sole Origin--all life, all beauty Thine;
Thy word created all, and doth create;
Thy splendor fills all space with rays divine;
Thou art and wert and shalt be! Glorious! Great!
Light-giving, life-sustaining Potentate!

Thy chains the unmeasured universe surround--
Upheld by Thee, by Thee inspired with breath!
Thou the beginning with the end hast bound,
And beautifully mingled life and death!
As sparks mount upward from the fiery blaze,
So suns are born, so worlds spring forth from Thee;
And as the spangles in the sunny rays
Shine round the silver snow, the pageantry
Of heaven's bright army glitters in Thy praise.

A million torches, lighted by Thy hand,
Wander unwearied through the blue abyss--
They own Thy power, accomplish Thy command,
All gay with life, all eloquent with bliss.
What shall we call them? Piles of crystal light--
A glorious company of golden streams--
Lamps of celestial ether burning bright--
Suns lighting systems with their joyous beams?
But Thou to these art as the noon to night.

Yes! as a drop of water in the sea,
All this magnificence in Thee is lost:--
What are ten thousand worlds compared to Thee?
And what am I then?--Heaven's unnumbered host,
Though multiplied by myriads, and arrayed
In all the glory of sublimest thought,
Is but an atom in the balance, weighed
Against Thy greatness--is a cipher brought
Against infinity! What am I then? Naught!

Naught! But the effluence of Thy light divine,
Pervading worlds, hath reached my bosom too;
Yes! in my spirit doth Thy spirit shine
As shines the sunbeam in a drop of dew.
Naught! but I live, and on hope's pinions fly
Eager toward Thy presence; for in Thee
I live, and breathe, and dwell; aspiring high,
Even to the throne of Thy divinity.
I am, O God! and surely Thou must be!

Thou art!--directing, guiding all--Thou art!
Direct my understanding then to Thee;
Control my spirit, guide my wandering heart;
Though but an atom midst immensity,
Still I am something, fashioned by Thy hand!
I hold a middle rank 'twixt heaven and earth--
On the last verge of mortal being stand.
Close to the realm where angels have their birth,
Just on the boundaries of the spirit-land!

The chain of being is complete in me--
In me is matter's last gradation lost,
And the next step is spirit--Deity!
I can command the lightning, and am dust!
A monarch and a slave--a worm, a god!
Whence came I here, and how? so marvelously
Constructed and conceived? unknown! this clod
Lives surely through some higher energy;
For from itself alone it could not be!

Creator, yes! Thy wisdom and Thy word
Created me! Thou source of life and good!
Thou spirit of my spirit, and my Lord!
Thy light, Thy love, in their bright plenitude
Filled me with an immortal soul, to spring
Over the abyss of death; and bade it wear
The garments of eternal day, and wing
Its heavenly flight beyond this little sphere,
Even to its source--to Thee--its Author there.

O thoughts ineffable! O visions blest!
Though worthless our conceptions all of Thee,
Yet shall Thy shadowed image fill our breast.
And waft its homage to Thy Deity.
God! thus alone my lowly thoughts can soar,
Thus seek thy presence--Being wise and good!
Midst Thy vast works admire, obey, adore;
And when the tongue is eloquent no more
The soul shall speak in tears of gratitude.

    _Gabriel Somanovitch Derzhavin._

Casabianca

The boy stood on the burning deck,
  Whence all but him had fled;
The flame that lit the battle's wreck
  Shone round him o'er the dead.

Yet beautiful and bright he stood,
  As born to rule the storm;
A creature of heroic blood,
  A proud, though childlike form.

The flames roll'd on--he would not go
  Without his father's word;
That father, faint in death below,
  His voice no longer heard.

He called aloud: "Say, father, say
  If yet my task is done?"
He knew not that the chieftain lay
  Unconscious of his son.

"Speak, father!" once again he cried,
  "If I may yet be gone!"
And but the booming shots replied,
  And fast the flames roll'd on.

Upon his brow he felt their breath,
  And in his waving hair;
And looked from that lone post of death
  In still, yet brave despair.

And shouted but once more aloud,
  "My father! must I stay?"
While o'er him fast, through sail and shroud,
  The wreathing fires made way.

They wrapt the ship in splendor wild,
  They caught the flag on high,
And streamed above the gallant child,
  Like banners in the sky.

There came a burst of thunder sound--
  The boy--oh! where was he?
Ask of the winds that far around
  With fragments strewed the sea!

With mast, and helm, and pennon fair,
  That well had borne their part--
But the noblest thing that perished there
  Was that young, faithful heart.

    _Felicia Hemans._

Monterey

We were not many,--we who stood
  Before the iron sleet that day;
Yet many a gallant spirit would
Give half his years if he but could
  Have been with us at Monterey.

Now here, now there, the shot it hailed
  In deadly drifts of fiery spray,
Yet not a single soldier quailed
When wounded comrades round them wailed
  Their dying shout at Monterey.

And on, still on our column kept,
  Through walls of flame, its withering way;
Where fell the dead, the living stept,
Still charging on the guns which swept
  The slippery streets of Monterey.

The foe himself recoiled aghast,
  When, striking where he strongest lay,
We swooped his flanking batteries past,
And braving full their murderous blast,
  Stormed home the towers of Monterey.

Our banners on those turrets wave,
  And there our evening bugles play;
Where orange boughs above their grave
Keep green the memory of the brave
  Who fought and fell at Monterey.

We are not many, we who pressed
  Beside the brave who fell that day;
But who of us has not confessed
He'd rather share their warrior rest,
  Than not have been at Monterey?

    _Charles Fenno Hoffman._

The Teacher's "If"

If you can take your dreams into the classroom,
  And always make them part of each day's work--
If you can face the countless petty problems
  Nor turn from them nor ever try to shirk--
If you can live so that the child you work with
  Deep in his heart knows you to be a man--
If you can take "I can't" from out his language
  And put in place a vigorous "I can"--

If you can take Love with you to the classroom,
  And yet on Firmness never shut the door--
If you can teach a child the love of Nature
  So that he helps himself to all her store--
If you can teach him life is what we make it,
  That he himself can be his only bar--
If you can tell him something of the heavens,
  Or something of the wonder of a star--

If you, with simple bits of truth and honor,
  His better self occasionally reach--
And yet not overdo nor have him dub you
  As one who is inclined to ever preach--
If you impart to him a bit of liking
  For all the wondrous things we find in print--
Yet have him understand that to be happy,
  Play, exercise, fresh air he must not stint--

If you can give of all the best that's in you,
  And in the giving always happy be--
If you can find the good that's hidden somewhere
  Deep in the heart of every child you see--
If you can do these things and all the others
  That teachers everywhere do every day--
You're in the work that you were surely meant for;
  Take hold of it! Know it's your place and stay!

    _R.J. Gale._

The Good Shepherd

There were ninety and nine
Of a flock, sleek and fine
  In a sheltering cote in the vale;
But a lamb was away,
On the mountain astray,
  Unprotected within the safe pale.

Then the sleet and the rain
On the mountain and plain,
  And the wind fiercely blowing a gale,
And the night's growing dark,
And the wolf's hungry bark
  Stir the soul of the shepherd so hale.

And he says, "Hireling, go;
For a lamb's in the snow
  And exposed to the wild hungry beast;
'Tis no time to keep seat,
Nor to rest weary feet,
  Nor to sit at a bounteous feast."

Then the hireling replied,
"Here you have at your side
  All your flock save this one little sheep.
Are the ninety and nine,
All so safe and so fine,
  Not enough for the shepherd to keep?"

Then the shepherd replied,
"Ah! this lamb from my side
  Presses near, very near, to my heart.
Not its value in pay
Makes me urge in this way,
  But the longings and achings of heart."

"Let me wait till the day,
O good shepherd, I pray;
  For I shudder to go in the dark
On the mountain so high
And its precipice nigh
  'Mong the wolves with their frightening bark."

Then the shepherd said, "No;
Surely some one must go
  Who can rescue my lamb from the cold,
From the wolf's hungry maw
And the lion's fierce paw
  And restore it again to the fold."

Then the shepherd goes out
With his cloak girt about
  And his rod and his staff in his hand.
What cares he for the cold
If his sheep to the fold
  He can bring from the dark mountain land?

You can hear his clear voice
As the mountains rejoice,
  "Sheepy sheep, sheepy sheep, sheepy sheep!"
Up the hillside so steep,
Into caverns so deep,
  "Sheepy sheep, sheepy sheep, sheepy sheep!"

Now he hears its weak "baa,"
And he answers it, "Ah!
  Sheepy sheep, sheepy sheep, sheepy sheep!"
Then its answering bleat
Hurries on his glad feet,
  And his arms gather up his lost sheep.

Wet and cold on his breast
The lost lamb found its rest
  As he bore it adown to the fold.
And the ninety and nine
Bleat for joy down the line,
  That it's safe from the wolf and the cold.

Then he said to his friends,
"Now let joy make amends
  For the steeps and the deeps I have crossed--
For the pelting of sleet
And my sore, weary feet,
  For I've found the dear lamb that was lost."

Let the hirelings upbraid
For the nights that He stayed
  On the mountains so rugged and high.
Surely never a jeer
From my lips shall one hear,
  For--that poor lonely lambkin--was--I.

While the eons shall roll
O'er my glad ransomed soul
  I will praise the Good Shepherd above,
For a place on His breast,
For its comfort and rest,
  For His wonderful, wonderful love.

    _D. N. Howe._

A Sermon in Rhyme

If you have a friend worth loving,
  Love him. Yes, and let him know
That you love him ere life's evening
  Tinge his brow with sunset glow;
Why should good words ne'er be said
Of a friend--till he is dead?

If you hear a song that thrills you,
  Sung by any child of song,
Praise it. Do not let the singer
  Wait deserved praises long;
Why should one that thrills your heart
Lack that joy it may impart?

If you hear a prayer that moves you
  By its humble pleading tone,
Join it. Do not let the seeker
  Bow before his God alone;
Why should not your brother share
The strength of "two or three" in prayer?

If you see the hot tears falling
  From a loving brother's eyes,
Share them, and by sharing,
  Own your kinship with the skies;
Why should anyone be glad,
When his brother's heart is sad?

If a silver laugh goes rippling
  Through the sunshine on his face,
Share it. 'Tis the wise man's saying,
  For both grief and joy a place;
There's health and goodness in the mirth
In which an honest laugh has birth.

If your work is made more easy
  By a friendly helping hand,
Say so. Speak out brave and truly,
  Ere the darkness veil the land.
Should a brother workman dear
Falter for a word of cheer?

Scatter thus your seed of kindness,
  All enriching as you go--
Leave them, trust the Harvest-Giver;
  He will make each seed to grow.
So, until its happy end,
Your life shall never lack a friend.

The Fortunate Isles

You sail and you seek for the Fortunate Isles,
  The old Greek Isles of the yellow bird's song?
Then steer right on through the watery miles,
  Straight on, straight on, and you can't go wrong.
Nay, not to the left, nay, not to the right;
But on, straight on, and the Isles are in sight,
The Fortunate Isles, where the yellow birds sing
And life lies girt with a golden ring.

These Fortunate Isles, they are not far;
  They lie within reach of the lowliest door;
You can see them gleam by the twilight star;
  You can hear them sing by the moon's white shore,
Nay, never look back! Those leveled gravestones,
They were landing steps; they were steps unto thrones
Of glory for souls that have sailed before
And have set white feet on the fortunate shore.

And what are the names of the Fortunate Isles?
  Why, Duty and Love and a large content.
Lo! there are the isles of the watery miles
  That God let down from the firmament;
Lo! Duty and Love, and a true man's trust;
Your forehead to God and your feet in the dust;
Lo! Duty and Love, and a sweet babe's smiles,
And there, O friend, are the Fortunate Isles.

    _Joaquin Miller._

What the Choir Sang About the New Bonnet

A foolish little maiden bought a foolish little bonnet,
With a ribbon, and a feather, and a bit of lace upon it;
And that the other maidens of the little town might know it,
She thought she'd go to meeting the next Sunday just to show it.

But though the little bonnet was scarce larger than a dime,
The getting of it settled proved to be a work of time;
So when 'twas fairly tied, all the bells had stopped their ringing,
And when she came to meeting, sure enough the folks were singing.

So this foolish little maiden stood and waited at the door;
And she shook her ruffles out behind and smoothed them down before.
"Hallelujah! hallelujah!" sang the choir above her head.
"Hardly knew you! hardly knew you!" were the words she thought they said.

This made the little maiden feel so very, very cross,
That she gave her little mouth a twist, her little head a toss;
For she thought the very hymn they sang was all about her bonnet,
With the ribbon, and the feather, and the bit of lace upon it.

And she would not wait to listen to the sermon or the prayer,
But pattered down the silent street, and hurried up the stair,
Till she reached her little bureau, and in a band-box on it,
Had hidden, safe from critics' eyes, her foolish little bonnet.

Which proves, my little maidens, that each of you will find
In every Sabbath service but an echo of your mind;
And the silly little head, that's filled with silly little airs,
Will never get a blessing from sermon or from prayers.

    _M. T. Morrison._

Work Thou for Pleasure

Work thou for pleasure; paint or sing or carve
The thing thou lovest, though the body starve.
Who works for glory misses oft the goal;
Who works for money coins his very soul.
Work for work's sake then, and it well may be
That these things shall be added unto thee.

    _Kenyon Cox._

The Tin Gee Gee

I was strolling one day down the Lawther Arcade,
That place for children's toys,
Where you can purchase a dolly or spade
For your good little girls and boys.
And as I passed a certain stall, said a wee little voice to me:
O, I am a Colonel in a little cocked hat, and I ride on a tin Gee Gee;
O, I am a Colonel in a little cocked hat, and I ride on a tin Gee Gee.

Then I looked and a little tin soldier I saw,
In his little cocked hat so fine.
He'd a little tin sword that shone in the light
As he led a glittering line of tin hussars,
Whose sabers flashed in a manner a la military.
And that little tin soldier he rode at their head,
So proud on his tin Gee Gee.

Then that little tin soldier he sobbed and he sighed,
So I patted his little tin head.
What vexes your little tin soul? said I,
And this is what he said:
I've been on this stall a very long time,
And I'm marked twenty-nine, as you see;
Whilst just on the shelf above my head,
There's a fellow marked sixty-three.

Now he hasn't got a sword and he hasn't got a horse,
And I'm quite as good as he.
So why mark me at twenty-nine,
And him at sixty-three?
There's a pretty little dolly girl over there,
And I'm madly in love with she.
But now that I'm only marked twenty-nine,
She turns up her nose at me,
She turns up her little wax nose at me,
And carries on with sixty-three.

And, oh, she's dressed in a beautiful dress;
It's a dress I do admire,
She has pearly blue eyes that open and shut
When worked inside by a wire,
And once on a time when the folks had gone,
She used to ogle at me.
But now that I'm only marked twenty-nine,
She turns up her nose at me.
She turns up her little snub nose at me,
And carries on with sixty-three.

Cheer up, my little tin man, said I,
I'll see what I can do.
You're a fine little fellow, and it's a shame
That she should so treat you.
So I took down the label from the shelf above,
And I labeled him sixty-three,
And I marked the other one twenty-nine,
Which was _very, very_ wrong of me,
But I felt so sorry for that little tin soul,
As he rode on his tin Gee Gee.

Now that little tin soldier he puffed with pride,
At being marked sixty-three,
And that saucy little dolly girl smiled once more,
For he'd risen in life, do you see?
And it's so in this world; for I'm in love
With a maiden of high degree;
But I am only marked twenty-nine,
And the other chap's sixty-three--
And a girl never looks at twenty-nine
With a possible sixty-three!

    _Fred Cape._

"Tommy"

I went into a public-'ouse to get a pint o' beer,
The publican 'e up an' sez, "We serve no red-coats here."
The girls be'ind the bar they laughed an' giggled fit to die,
I outs into the street again, an' to myself sez I:
O it's Tommy this, an' Tommy that, an' "Tommy go away";
But it's "Thank you, Mister Atkins," when the band begins to play,
The band begins to play, my boys, the band begins to play,
O it's "Thank you, Mister Atkins," when the band begins to play.

I went into a theater as sober as could be,
They give a drunk civilian room, but 'adn't none for me;
They sent me to the gallery or round the music-'alls,
But when it comes to fightin', Lord! they'll shove me in the stalls.
For it's Tommy this, an' Tommy that, an' "Tommy wait outside";
But it's "Special train for Atkins," when the trooper's on the tide,
The troopship's on the tide, my boys, etc.

O makin' mock o' uniforms that guard you while you sleep
Is cheaper than them uniforms, an' they're starvation cheap;
An' hustlin' drunken sodgers when they're goin' large a bit
Is five times better business than paradin' in full kit.
Then it's Tommy this, an' Tommy that, an' "Tommy, 'ow's yer soul?"
But it's "Thin red line of 'eroes" when the drums begin to roll,
The drums begin to roll, my boys, etc.

We aren't no thin red 'eroes, nor we aren't no blackguards too,
But single men in barricks, most remarkable like you;
An' if sometimes our conduck isn't all your fancy paints,
Why, single men in barricks don't grow into plaster saints.
While it's Tommy this, an' Tommy that, an' "Tommy fall be'ind";
But it's "Please to walk in front, sir," when there's trouble in the wind.
There's trouble in the wind, my boys, etc.

You talk o' better food for us, an' schools, an' fires, an' all:
We'll wait for extry rations if you treat us rational.
Don't mess about the cook-room slops, but prove it to our face,
The Widow's uniform[1] is not the soldierman's disgrace.
For it's Tommy this, an' Tommy that, an' "Chuck him out, the brute!"
But it's "Saviour of 'is country" when the guns begin to shoot;
An' it's Tommy this, an' Tommy that, an' anything you please;
An' Tommy ain't a bloomin' fool--you bet that Tommy sees!

    _Rudyard Kipling._

[Footnote 1: "Widow's uniform"--i. e., uniform of a soldier of Queen

The Mystic Weaver

The weaver at his loom is sitting,
Throws his shuttle to and fro;
    Foot and treadle,
    Hand and pedal,
Upward, downward, hither, thither,
How the weaver makes them go:
As the weaver wills they go.
Up and down the web is plying,
And across the woof is flying;
    What a rattling!
    What a battling!
    What a shuffling!
    What a scuffling!
As the weaver makes his shuttle
Hither, thither, scud and scuttle.
Threads in single, threads in double;
How they mingle, what a trouble!
Every color, what profusion!
Every motion, what confusion!
While the web and woof are mingling,
Signal bells above are jingling,--
Telling how each figure ranges,
Telling when the color changes,
As the weaver makes his shuttle
Hither, thither, scud and scuttle.

The weaver at his loom is sitting,
Throws his shuttle to and fro;
'Mid the noise and wild confusion,
Well the weaver seems to know,
As he makes his shuttle go,
    What each motion
    And commotion,
    What each fusion
    And confusion,
In the grand result will show.
    Weaving daily,
    Singing gaily,
As he makes his busy shuttle
Hither, thither, scud and scuttle.

The weaver at his loom is sitting,
Throws his shuttle to and fro;
See you not how shape and order
From the wild confusion grow,
As he makes his shuttle go?--
As the web and woof diminish,
Grows beyond the beauteous finish,--
    Tufted plaidings,
    Shapes, and shadings;
    All the mystery
    Now is history;--
And we see the reason subtle,
Why the weaver makes his shuttle
Hither, thither, scud and scuttle.

See the Mystic Weaver sitting
High in heaven--His loom below;
Up and down the treadles go;
Takes for web the world's long ages,
Takes for woof its kings and sages,
Takes the nobles and their pages,
Takes all stations and all stages,--
Thrones are bobbins in His shuttle;
Armies make them scud and scuttle;
Web into the woof must flow,
Up and down the nations go,
As the weaver wills they go;
    Men are sparring,
    Powers are jarring,
Upward, downward, hither, thither
Just like puppets in a show.
Up and down the web is plying,
And across the woof is flying,
    What a battling!
    What a rattling!
    What a shuffling!
    What a scuffling!
As the weaver makes his shuttle
Hither, thither, scud and scuttle.

Calmly see the Mystic Weaver
  Throw His shuttle to and fro;
'Mid the noise and wild confusion.
  Well the Weaver seems to know
    What each motion
    And commotion,
    What each fusion
    And confusion,
  In the grand result will show,
    As the nations,
    Kings and stations,
Upward, downward, hither, thither,
As in mystic dances, go.
In the present all is mystery;
In the past, 'tis beauteous history.
O'er the mixing and the mingling,
How the signal bells are jingling!
See you not the Weaver leaving
Finished work behind, in weaving?
See you not the reason subtle,
As the web and woof diminish,
Changing into beauteous finish,
_Why_ the Weaver makes his shuttle,
Hither, thither, scud and scuttle?

Glorious wonder! what a weaving!
To the dull beyond believing!
Such, no fabled ages know.
Only _Faith_ can see the mystery,
How, along the aisle of history
Where the feet of sages go,
Loveliest to the purest eyes,
Grand the mystic tapet lies,--
Soft and smooth, and even spreading
Every figure has its plaidings,
As if made for angels' treading;
Tufted circles touching ever,
Inwrought figures fading never;
Brighter form and softer shadings;
Each illumined,--what a riddle
From a cross that gems the middle.

'Tis a saying--some reject it--
That its light is all reflected;
That the tapet's hues are given
By a sun that shines in heaven!
'Tis believed, by all believing,
That great God himself is weaving,--
Bringing out the world's dark mystery,
In the light of truth and history;
And as web and woof diminish,
Comes the grand and glorious finish;
When begin the golden ages
Long foretold by seers and sages.

The Mortgage on the Farm

'Tis gone at last, and I am glad; it stayed a fearful while,
And when the world was light and gay, I could not even smile;
It stood before me like a giant, outstretched its iron arm;
No matter where I looked, I saw the mortgage on the farm.

I'll tell you how it happened, for I want the world to know
How glad I am this winter day whilst earth is white with snow;
I'm just as happy as a lark. No cause for rude alarm
Confronts us now, for lifted is the mortgage on the farm.

The children they were growing up and they were smart and trim.
To some big college in the East we'd sent our youngest, Jim;
And every time he wrote us, at the bottom of his screed
He tacked some Latin fol-de-rol which none of us could read.

The girls they ran to music, and to painting, and to rhymes,
They said the house was out of style and far behind the times;
They suddenly diskivered that it didn't keep'm warm--
Another step of course towards a mortgage on the farm.

We took a cranky notion, Hannah Jane and me one day,
While we were coming home from town, a-talking all the way;
The old house wasn't big enough for us, although for years
Beneath its humble roof we'd shared each other's joys and tears.

We built it o'er and when 'twas done, I wish you could have seen it,
It was a most tremendous thing--I really didn't mean it;
Why, it was big enough to hold the people of the town
And not one half as cosy as the old one we pulled down.

I bought a fine pianner and it shortened still the pile,
But, then, it pleased the children and they banged it all the while;
No matter what they played for me, their music had no charm,
For every tune said plainly: "There's a mortgage on the farm!"

I worked from morn till eve, and toiled as often toils the slave
To meet that grisly interest; I tried hard to be brave,
And oft when I came home at night with tired brain and arm,
The chickens hung their heads, they felt the mortgage on the farm.--

But we saved a penny now and then, we laid them in a row,
The girls they played the same old tunes, and let the new ones go;
And when from college came our Jim with laurels on his brow,
I led him to the stumpy field and put him to the plow.

He something said in Latin which I didn't understand,
But it did me good to see his plow turn up the dewy land;
And when the year had ended and empty were the cribs,
We found we'd hit the mortgage, sir, a blow between the ribs.

To-day I harnessed up the team and thundered off to town,
And in the lawyer's sight I planked the last bright dollar down;
And when I trotted up the lanes a-feeling good and warm,
The old red rooster crowed his best: "No mortgage on the farm!"

I'll sleep almighty good to-night, the best for many a day,
The skeleton that haunted us has passed fore'er away.
The girls can play the brand-new tunes with no fears to alarm,
And Jim can go to Congress, with no mortgage on the farm!

The Legend Beautiful

"Hadst thou stayed, I must have fled!"
That is what the vision said.

In his chamber all alone,
Kneeling on the floor of stone,
Prayed the Monk in deep contrition
For his sins of indecision,
Prayed for greater self-denial
In temptation and in trial;
It was noonday by the dial,
And the Monk was all alone.

Suddenly, as if it lightened,
An unwonted splendor brightened
All within him and without him
In that narrow cell of stone;
And he saw the blessed vision
Of our Lord, with light Elysian
Like a vesture wrapped about Him,
Like a garment round Him thrown.

Not as crucified and slain
Not in agonies of pain,
Not with bleeding hands and feet,
Did the Monk his Master see;
But as in the village street,
In the house or harvest field,
Halt and lame and blind He healed,
When He walked in Galilee.

In as attitude imploring,
Hands upon his bosom crossed,
Wondering, worshiping, adoring,
Knelt the Monk, in rapture lost,
Lord, he thought, in heaven that reignest,
Who am I that thus Thou deignest
To reveal Thyself to me?
Who am I, that from the center
Of Thy glory Thou shouldst enter
This poor cell, my guest to be?

Then amid his exaltation,
Loud the convent bell appalling,
From its belfrey calling, calling,
Rang through court and corridor
With persistent iteration,
He had never heard before.
It was now the appointed hour
When alike in shine or shower,
Winter's cold or summer's heat,
To the convent portals came
All the blind and halt and lame,
All the beggars of the street,
For their daily dole of food
Dealt them by the brotherhood;

And their almoner was he
Who upon his bended knees
Rapt in silent ecstasy
Of divinest self-surrender,
Saw the vision and the splendor.

Deep distress and hesitation
Mingled with his adoration;
Should he go, or should he stay?
Should he leave the poor to wait
Hungry at the convent gate,
Till the vision passed away?
Should he slight his radiant guest,
Slight this visitant celestial
For a crowd of ragged, bestial
Beggars at the convent gate?
Would the vision there remain?
Would the vision come again?
Then a voice within his breast
Whispered audible and clear,
As if to the outward ear:
"Do thy duty; that is best;
Leave unto thy Lord the rest!"

Straightway to his feet he started,
And with longing look intent
On the blessed vision bent,
Slowly from his cell departed,
Slowly on his errand went.

At the gate the poor were waiting,
Looking through the iron grating,
With that terror in the eye
That is only seen in those
Who amid their wants and woes
Hear the sound of doors that close.
And of feet that pass them by:
Grown familiar with disfavor,
Grown familiar with the savor
Of the bread by which men die;
But to-day, they knew not why,
Like the gate of Paradise
Seemed the convent gate to rise,
Like a sacrament divine
Seemed to them the bread and wine.
In his heart the Monk was praying,
Thinking of the homeless poor,
What they suffer and endure;
What we see not, what we see;
And the inward voice was saying:
"Whatsoever thing thou doest
To the least of mine and lowest,
That thou doest unto me."

Unto me! but had the vision
Come to him in beggar's clothing,
Come a mendicant imploring,
Would he then have knelt adoring,
Or have listened with derision,
And have turned away with loathing?

Thus his conscience put the question,
Full of troublesome suggestion,
As at length, with hurried pace,
Toward his cell he turned his face,
And beheld the convent bright
With a supernatural light,
Like a luminous cloud expanding
Over floor and wall and ceiling.

But he paused with awe-struck feeling
At the threshold of his door,
For the vision still was standing
As he left it there before,
When the convent bell appalling,
From its belfry calling, calling,
Summoned him to feed the poor.
Through the long hour intervening
It had waited his return,
And he felt his bosom burn,
Comprehending all the meaning,
When the blessed vision said:
"Hadst thou stayed, I must have fled."

    _Henry W. Longfellow._

Somebody's Darling

Into a ward of the whitewashed halls,
  Where the dead and dying lay,
Wounded by bayonets, shells, and balls,
  Somebody's Darling was borne one day--

Somebody's Darling, so young and so brave,
  Wearing yet on his pale, sweet face,
Soon to be hid by the dust of the grave,
  The lingering light of his boyhood's grace.

Matted and damp are the curls of gold,
  Kissing the snow of the fair young brow,
Pale are the lips of delicate mold--
  Somebody's Darling is dying now.

Back from his beautiful blue-veined brow
  Brush all the wandering waves of gold,
Cross his hands on his bosom now--
  Somebody's Darling is still and cold.

Kiss him once for somebody's sake,
  Murmur a prayer both soft and low;
One bright curl from its fair mates take--
  They were somebody's pride, you know.

Somebody's hand hath rested there--
  Was it a mother's, soft and white?
And have the lips of a sister fair
  Been baptized in their waves of light?

God knows best! he was somebody's love;
  Somebody's heart enshrined him there;
Somebody wafted his name above,
  Night and morn on the wings of prayer.

Somebody wept when he marched away,
  Looking so handsome, brave, and grand;
Somebody's kiss on his forehead lay,
  Somebody clung to his parting hand.

Somebody's waiting and watching for him--
  Yearning to hold him again to her heart;
And there he lies with his blue eyes dim,
  And the smiling, child-like lips apart.

Tenderly bury the fair young dead,
  Pausing to drop on his grave a tear;
Carve in the wooden slab at his head,
  "Somebody's Darling slumbers here."

    _Maria La Coste._

The Pride of Battery B

South Mountain towered upon our right, far off the river lay,
And over on the wooded height we held their lines at bay.
At last the muttering guns were still; the day died slow and wan;
At last the gunners pipes did fill, the sergeant's yarns began.
When, as the wind a moment blew aside the fragrant flood
Our brierwoods raised, within our view a little maiden stood.
A tiny tot of six or seven, from fireside fresh she seemed,
(Of such a little one in heaven one soldier often dreamed.)
And as we stared, her little hand went to her curly head
In grave salute. "And who are _you_?" at length the sergeant said.
"And where's your home?" he growled again. She lisped out, "Who is me?
Why, don't you know? I'm little Jane, the Pride of Battery B.
My home? Why, that was burned away, and pa and ma are dead;
And so I ride the guns all day along with Sergeant Ned.
And I've a drum that's not a toy, a cap with feathers, too;
And I march beside the drummer boy on Sundays at review.
But now our 'bacca's all give out, the men can't have their smoke,
And so they're cross--why, even Ned won't play with me and joke.
And the big colonel said to-day--I hate to hear him swear--
He'd give a leg for a good pipe like the Yanks had over there.
And so I thought when beat the drum,  and the big guns were still,
I'd creep beneath the tent and come out here across the hill
And beg, good Mister Yankee men, you'd give me some 'Lone Jack.'
Please do: when we get some again, I'll surely bring it back.
Indeed I will, for Ned--says he,--if I do what I say,
I'll be a general yet, maybe, and ride a prancing bay."

We brimmed her tiny apron o'er; you should have heard her laugh
As each man from his scanty store shook out a generous half.
To kiss the little mouth stooped down a score of grimy men,
Until the sergeant's husky voice said,"'Tention squad!" and then
We gave her escort, till good-night the pretty waif we bid,
And watched her toddle out of sight--or else 'twas tears that hid
Her tiny form--nor turned about a man, nor spoke a word,
Till after awhile a far, hoarse shout upon the wind we heard!
We sent it back, then cast sad eyes upon the scene around;
A baby's hand had touched the ties that brothers once had bound.

That's all--save when the dawn awoke again the work of hell,
And through the sullen clouds of smoke the screaming missiles fell,
Our general often rubbed his glass, and marveled much to see
Not a single shell that whole day fell in the camp of Battery B.

    _Frank H. Gassaway._

The Wood-Box

It was kept out in the kitchen, and 'twas long and deep and wide,
And the poker hung above it and the shovel stood beside,
And the big, black cookstove, grinnin' through its grate from ear to ear,
Seemed to look as if it loved it like a brother, pretty near.
Flowered oilcloth tacked around it kept its cracks and knot-holes hid,
And a pair of leather hinges fastened on the heavy lid,
And it hadn't any bottom--or, at least, it seemed that way
When you hurried in to fill it, so's to get outside and play.

When the noons was hot and lazy and the leaves hung dry and still,
And the locust in the pear tree started up his planin'-mill,
And the drum-beat of the breakers was a soothin', temptin' roll,
And you knew the "gang" was waitin' by the brimmin' "swimmin' hole"--
Louder than the locust's buzzin,' louder than the breakers' roar,
You could hear the wood-box holler, "Come and fill me up once more!"
And the old clock ticked and chuckled as you let each armful drop,
Like it said, "Another minute, and you're nowheres near the top!"

In the chilly winter mornin's when the bed was snug and warm,
And the frosted winders tinkled 'neath the fingers of the storm,
And your breath rose off the piller in a smoky cloud of steam--
Then that wood-box, grim and empty, came a-dancin' through your dream,
Came and pounded at your conscience, screamed in aggravatin' glee,
"Would you like to sleep this mornin'? You git up and 'tend to me!"
Land! how plain it is this minute--shed and barn and drifted snow,
And the slabs of oak a-waitin!, piled and ready, in a row.

Never was a fishin' frolic, never was a game of ball,
But that mean, provokin' wood-box had to come and spoil it all;
You might study at your lessons and 'twas full and full to stay,
But jest start an Injun story, and 'twas empty right away.
Seemed as if a spite was in it, and although I might forgit
All the other chores that plagued me, I can hate that wood-box yit:
And when I look back at boyhood--shakin' off the cares of men--
Still it comes to spoil the picture, screamin', "Fill me up again!"

    _Joseph C. Lincoln._

Inasmuch

Good Deacon Roland--"may his tribe increase!"--
Awoke one Sabbath morn feeling at peace
With God and all mankind. His wants supplied,
He read his Bible and then knelt beside
The family altar, and uplifted there
His voice to God in fervent praise and prayer;
In praise for blessings past, so rich and free,
And prayer for benedictions yet to be.
Then on a stile, which spanned the dooryard fence,
He sat him down complacently, and thence
Surveyed with pride, o'er the far-reaching plain,
His flocks and herds and fields of golden grain;
His meadows waving like the billowy seas,
And orchards filled with over-laden trees,
Quoth he: "How vast the products of my lands;
Abundance crowns the labor of my hands,
Great is my substance; God indeed is good,
Who doth in love provide my daily food."

While thus he sat in calm soliloquy,
A voice aroused him from his reverie,--
A childish voice from one whose shoeless feet
Brought him unnoticed to the deacon's seat;
"Please mister, I have eaten naught to-day;
If I had money I would gladly pay
For bread; but I am poor, and cannot buy
My breakfast; mister, would you mind if I
Should ask for something, just for what you call
Cold pieces from your table, that is all?"
The deacon listened to the child's request,
The while his penetrating eye did rest
On him whose tatters, trembling, quick revealed
The agitation of the heart concealed
Within the breast of one unskilled in ruse,
Who asked not alms like one demanding dues.
Then said the deacon: "I am not inclined
To give encouragement to those who find
It easier to beg for bread betimes,
Than to expend their strength in earning dimes
Wherewith to purchase it. A parent ought
To furnish food for those whom he has brought
Into this world, where each one has his share
Of tribulation, sorrow, toil and care.
I sympathize with you, my little lad,
Your destitution makes me feel so sad;
But, for the sake of those who should supply
Your wants, I must your earnest plea deny;
And inasmuch as giving food to you
Would be providing for your parents, too,
Thus fostering vagrancy and idleness,
I cannot think such charity would bless
Who gives or takes; and therefore I repeat,
I cannot give you anything to eat."
Before this "vasty deep" of logic stood
The child nor found it satisfying food.
Nor did he tell the tale he might have told
Of parents slumbering in the grave's damp mould,
But quickly shrank away to find relief
In giving vent to his rekindled grief,
While Deacon Roland soon forgot the appeal
In meditating on his better weal.

Ere long the Sabbath bells their peals rang out
To summon worshippers, with hearts devout,
To wait on God and listen to His word;
And then the deacon's pious heart was stirred;
And in the house of God he soon was found
Engaged in acts of worship most profound.
Wearied, however, with his week-day care,
He fell asleep before the parson's prayer
Was ended; then he dreamed he died and came
To heaven's grand portal, and announced his name:
"I'm Deacon Roland, called from earth afar,
To join the saints; please set the gates ajar,
That I may 'join the everlasting song,'
And mingle ever with the ransomed throng."
Then lo! "a horror of great darkness" came
Upon him, as he heard a voice exclaim:
"Depart from me! you cannot enter here!
I never knew you, for indeed, howe'er
You may have wrought on earth, the sad, sad fact
Remains, that life's sublimest, worthiest act--"
The deacon woke to find it all a dream
Just as the minister announced his theme:
"My text," said he, "doth comfort only such
As practice charity; for 'inasmuch
As ye have done it to the least of these
My little ones' saith He who holds the keys
Of heaven, 'ye have done it unto me,'
And I will give you immortality."

Straightway the deacon left his cushioned pew,
And from the church in sudden haste withdrew,
And up the highway ran, on love's swift feet
To overtake the child of woe, and greet
Him as the worthy representative
Of Christ the Lord and to him freely give
All needful good, that thus he might atone
For the neglect which he before had shown.
Thus journeying, God directed all his way,
O'er hill and dale, to where the outcast lay
Beside the road bemoaning his sad fate.
And then the deacon said, "My child, 'tis late;
Make haste and journey with me to my home;
To guide you thither, I myself have come;
And you shall have the food you asked in vain,
For God himself hath made my duty plain;
If he demand it, all I have is thine;
Shrink not, but trust me; place thy hand in mine."
And as they journeyed toward the deacon's home,
The child related how he came to roam,
Until the listening deacon understood
The touching story of his orphanhood.
Then, finding in the little waif a gem
Worthy to deck the Saviour's diadem,
He drew him to his loving breast, and said,
"My child, you shall by me be clothed and fed;
Nor shall you go from hence again to roam
While God in love provides for us a home."
And as the weeks and months roll on apace,
The deacon held the lad in love's embrace;
And being childless did on him confer
The boon of sonship.

                     Thus the almoner
Of God's great bounty to the destitute
The deacon came to be; and as the fruit
Of having learned to keep the golden rule
His charity became all-bountiful;
And from thenceforth he lived to benefit
Mankind; and when in life's great book were writ
Their names who heeded charity's request,
Lo! Deacon Roland's "name led all the rest."

    _S.V.R. Ford._

No Sects in Heaven

Talking of sects quite late one eve,
What one and another of saints believe,
That night I stood in a troubled dream
By the side of a darkly-flowing stream.

And a "churchman" down to the river came,
When I heard a strange voice call his name,
"Good father, stop; when you cross this tide
You must leave your robes on the other side."

But the aged father did not mind,
And his long gown floated out behind
As down to the stream his way he took,
His hands firm hold of a gilt-edged book.

"I'm bound for heaven, and when I'm there
I shall want my book of Common Prayer,
And though I put on a starry crown,
I should feel quite lost without my gown."

Then he fixed his eye on the shining track,
But his gown was heavy and held him back,
And the poor old father tried in vain,
A single step in the flood to gain.

I saw him again on the other side,
But his silk gown floated on the tide,
And no one asked, in that blissful spot,
If he belonged to "the church" or not.

Then down to the river a Quaker strayed;
His dress of a sober hue was made,
"My hat and coat must be all of gray,
I cannot go any other way."

Then he buttoned his coat straight up to his chin
And staidly, solemnly, waded in,
And his broad-brimmed hat he pulled down tight
Over his forehead, so cold and white.

But a strong wind carried away his hat,
And he sighed a few moments over that,
And then, as he gazed to the farther shore
The coat slipped off and was seen no more.

Poor, dying Quaker, thy suit of gray
Is quietly sailing--away--away,
But thou'lt go to heaven, as straight as an arrow,
Whether thy brim be broad or narrow.

Next came Dr. Watts with a bundle of psalms
Tied nicely up in his aged arms,
And hymns as many, a very wise thing,
That the people in heaven, "all round," might sing.

But I thought that he heaved an anxious sigh,
As he saw that the river ran broad and high,
And looked rather surprised, as one by one,
The psalms and hymns in the wave went down.

And after him, with his MSS.,
Came Wesley, the pattern of godliness,
But he cried, "Dear me, what shall I do?
The water has soaked them through and through."

And there, on the river, far and wide,
Away they went on the swollen tide,
And the saint, astonished, passed through alone,
Without his manuscripts, up to the throne.

Then gravely walking, two saints by name,
Down to the stream together came,
But as they stopped at the river's brink,
I saw one saint from the other shrink.

"Sprinkled or plunged--may I ask you, friend,
How you attained to life's great end?"
"_Thus_, with a few drops on my brow";
"But I have been _dipped_, as you'll see me now.

"And I really think it will hardly do,
As I'm 'close communion,' to cross with you.
You're bound, I know, to the realms of bliss,
But you must go that way, and I'll go this."

And straightway plunging with all his might,
Away to the left--his friend at the right,
Apart they went from this world of sin,
But how did the brethren "enter in"?

And now where the river was rolling on,
A Presbyterian church went down;
Of women, there seemed an innumerable throng,
But the men I could count as they passed along.

And concerning the road they could never agree,
The _old_ or the _new_ way, which it could be;
Nor ever a moment paused to think
That both would lead to the river's brink.

And a sound of murmuring long and loud
Came ever up from the moving crowd,
"You're in the old way, and I'm in the new,
That is the false, and this is the true":
Or, "I'm in the old way, and you're in the new,
_That_ is the false, and _this_ is the true."

But the brethren only seemed to speak,
Modest the sisters walked, and meek,
And if ever one of them chanced to say
What troubles she met with on the way,
How she longed to pass to the other side,
Nor feared to cross over the swelling tide,
A voice arose from the brethren then,
"Let no one speak but the 'holy men,'
For have ye not heard the words of Paul?
'Oh, let the women keep silence all.'"

I watched them long in my curious dream.
Till they stood by the border of the stream,
Then, just as I thought, the two ways met.
But all the brethren were talking yet,
And would talk on, till the heaving tide
Carried them over, side by side;
Side by side, for the way was one,
The toilsome journey of life was done,
And priest and Quaker, and all who died,
Came out alike on the other side;
No forms or crosses, or books had they,
No gowns of silk, or suits of gray,
No creeds to guide them, or MSS.,
For all had put on "Christ's righteousness."

    _Elizabeth H. Jocelyn Cleaveland._

The Railroad Crossing

I can't tell much about the thing, 'twas done so powerful quick;
But 'pears to me I got a most outlandish heavy lick:
It broke my leg, and tore my skulp, and jerked my arm 'most out.
But take a seat: I'll try and tell jest how it kem about.

You see, I'd started down to town, with that 'ere team of mine,
A-haulin' down a load o' corn to Ebenezer Kline,
And drivin' slow; for, jest about a day or two before,
The off-horse run a splinter in his foot, and made it sore.

You know the railroad cuts across the road at Martin's Hole:
Well, thar I seed a great big sign, raised high upon a pole;
I thought I'd stop and read the thing, and find out what it said,
And so I stopped the hosses on the railroad-track, and read.

I ain't no scholar, rekollect, and so I had to spell,
I started kinder cautious like, with R-A-I and L;
And that spelt "rail" as clear as mud; R-O-A-D was "road."
I lumped 'em: "railroad" was the word, and that 'ere much I knowed.

C-R-O and double S, with I-N-G to boot,
Made "crossing" jest as plain as Noah Webster dared to do't.
"Railroad crossing"--good enough!--L double-O-K, "look";
And I wos lookin' all the time, and spellin' like a book.

O-U-T spelt "out" just right; and there it was, "look out,"
I's kinder cur'us like, to know jest what't was all about;
F-O-R and T-H-E; 'twas then "look out for the--"
And then I tried the next word; it commenced with E-N-G.

I'd got that fur, when suddintly there came an awful whack;
A thousand fiery thunderbolts just scooped me off the track;
The hosses went to Davy Jones, the wagon went to smash,
And I was histed seven yards above the tallest ash.

I didn't come to life ag'in fur 'bout a day or two;
But, though I'm crippled up a heap, I sorter struggled through;
It ain't the pain, nor 'taint the loss o' that 'ere team of mine;
But, stranger, how I'd like to know the rest of that 'ere sign!

    _Hezekiah Strong._

The Sunset City

I

Turn back the leaves of history. On yon Pacific shore
A world-known city's fall and rise shall thrill your hearts once more.
'Twas April; nineteen-six the year; old San Francisco lay
Effulgent in the splendor of the dying orb of day
That bathed in flood of crimson light Mount Tamalpais' lonely height
And kissed the sister towns "goodnight" across the misty bay.

It burst in glory on the hills, lit up the princely homes,
And gleamed from lofty towers and spires and flashed from gilded domes;
It glorified the massive blocks caught in its widening flow,
Engulfed the maze of streets and parks that stretched away below,
Till marble white and foliage green and vales of gray, and silvery sheen
Of ocean's surface vast, serene, were tinted by its glow.

The tranquil murmurs of the deep were borne on balmy air
All odorous with lily breath and roses sweet and rare.
The zephyrs sang a lullaby as the slow, fiery ball
Ended its trail of gorgeousness behind horizon's wall.
Then gray absorbed each rainbow hue and dark the beauteous landscape grew
As shadowy Evening softly drew her curtain over all.

II

That night around the festal board, 'mid incandescence gay,
Sat Pomp and Pride and Wealth and Power, in sumptuous array,
That night the happy, careless throng were all on pleasure bent,
And Beauty in her jewelled robes to ball and opera went.
'Mid feasting, laughter, song and jest; by music's soothing tones caressed;
The Sunset City sank to rest in peace, secure, content.

III

Unconscious of approaching doom, old San Francisco sleeps
While from the east, all smilingly, the April morning creeps.
See! Playful sunbeams tinge with gold the mountains in the sky,
And hazy clouds of gray unfold--but, hark! What means that cry?
The ground vibrates with sadden shock. The buildings tremble, groan
      and rock.
Wild fears the waking senses mock, and some wake but to die.

A frightful subterranean force the earth's foundation shakes;
The city quivers in the throes of fierce, successive quakes,
And massive structures thrill like giant oaks before the blast;
Into the streets with deafening crash the frailer ones are cast.
Half garbed, the multitude rush out in frantic haste, with prayer and
      shout,
To join the panic stricken rout. Ho! DEATH is marching past.

A rumbling noise! The streets upheave, and sink again, like waves;
And shattered piles and shapeless wrecks are strewn with human graves.
Danger at every corner lurks. Destruction fills the air.
Death-laden showers of mortar, bricks, are falling everywhere.

IV

"_Fire! Fire!_" And lo! the dread fiend starts. Mothers with babes clasped
      to their hearts
Are struggling for the open parts in frenzy of despair.

A hundred tiny tongues of flame forth from the ruins burst.
No water! God! what shall we do to slake their quenchless thirst?
The shocks have broken all the mains! "_Use wine!_" the people cry.
The red flames laugh like drunken fiends; they stagger as to die,
Then up again in fury spring, on high their crimson draperies fling;
From block to block they leap and swing, and smoke clouds hide the sky.

Ha! from the famed Presidio that guards the Golden Gate
Come Funston and his regulars to match their strength with Fate.
The soldiers and the citizens are fighting side by side
To check that onslaught of red wrath, to stem destruction's tide.
With roar, and boom, and blare, and blast, an open space is cleared at
      last.
The fiends of fury gallop past with flanks outstretched and wide;

Around the city's storehouses they wreathe and twine and dance,
And wealth and splendor shrivel up before their swift advance.
Before their devastating breath the stricken people flee.
"Mine, mine your treasures are!" cried Death, and laughs in fiendish glee.
Into that vortex of red hell sink church and theatre, store, hotel.
With thunderous roar and hissing yell on sweeps the crimson sea.

Again with charge of dynamite the lurid clouds are riven;
Again with heat and sulphur smoke the troops are backward driven.
All day, all night, all day again, with that infernal host
They strive in vain for mastery. Each vantage gained is lost,--
On comes the bellowing flood of flame in furious wrath its own to claim;
Resistless in its awful aim each space is bridged and crossed.

Ah God! the miles and miles of waste! One half the city gone!
And westward now--toward Van Ness--the roaring flames roll on.
"Blow up that mile of palaces!" It is the last command,
And there, at broad Van Ness, the troops make their heroic stand.
The fight is now for life--sweet life, for helpless babe and homeless
      wife--
The culmination of the strife spectacularly grand.

On sweeps the hurricane of fire. The fatal touch is given.
The detonation of the blast goes shrieking up to heaven.
The mansions of bonanza kings are tottering to their doom;
That swirling tide of fiery fate halts at the gaping tomb.
Beyond the cataclysm's brink, the multitude, too dazed to think,
Behold the red waves rise and--sink into the smoldering gloom.

V

The fire has swept the waterfront and burned the Mission down,
The business section--swallowed up, and wiped out Chinatown--
Full thirty thousand homes destroyed, Nob Hill in ashes lies,
And ghastly skeletons of steel on Market Street arise.
A gruesome picture everywhere! 'Tis desolation grim and bare
Waits artisan and millionaire beneath rank sulphurous skies.

To-night, within the city parks, famished, benumbed and mute,
Two hundred thousand refugees, homeless and destitute!
Upon the hard, cold ground they crouch--the wrecks of Pomp and Pride;
Milady and the city waifs are huddled side by side.
And there, 'neath shelter rude and frail, we hear the new-born infants
      wail,
While' nations read the tragic tale--how San Francisco died.

VI

Not dead! Though maimed, her Soul yet lives--indomitable will--
The Faith, the Hope, the Spirit bold nor quake nor fire can kill.
To-morrow hearts shall throb again with western enterprise,
And from the ruins of to-day a city shall arise--
A monument of beauty great reared by the Conquerors of Fate--
The City of the Golden Gate and matchless sunset skies!

VII

Reborn, rebuilt, she rose again, far vaster in expanse--
A radiant city smiling from the ashes of romance!
A San Francisco glorified, more beauteous than of yore,
Enthroned upon her splendid hills, queen of the sunset shore;
Her flags of industry unfurled, her portals open to the world!
Thus, in the Book of Destiny, she lives for evermore.

    _Isabel Ambler Gilman._

Autumn

A DIRGE

The autumn is old;
The sere leaves are flying;
He hath gathered up gold,
And now he is dying:
Old age, begin sighing!

The vintage is ripe;
The harvest is heaping;
But some that have sowed
Have no riches for reaping:--
Poor wretch, fall a-weeping!

The year's in the wane;
There is nothing adorning;
The night has no eve,
And the day has no morning;
Cold winter gives warning.

The rivers run chill;
The red sun is sinking;
And I am grown old,
And life is fast shrinking;
Here's enow for sad thinking!

    _Thomas Hood_.

Grandmother's Quilt

Why, yes, dear, we can put it by. It does seem out of place
On top of these down comforts and this spread of silk and lace,
You see, I'm used to having it lie so, across my feet,
But maybe I won't need it here, with this nice furnace heat;
I made it? Yes, dear, long ago. 'Twas lots of work, you think?
Oh, not so much. My rose quilt, now, all white and green and pink,
Is really handsome. This is just a plain, log cabin block,
Pieced out of odds and ends; but still--now that's your papa's frock
Before he walked, and this bit here is his first little suit.
I trimmed it up with silver braid. My, but he did look cute!
That red there in the centers, was your Aunt Ruth's for her name,
Her grandmother almost clothed the child, before the others came.
Those plaids? The younger girls', they were. I dressed them just alike.
And this was baby Winnie's sack--the precious little tyke!
Ma wore this gown to visit me (they drove the whole way then).
And little Edson wore this waist. He never came again.
This lavender par'matta was your Great-aunt Jane's--poor dear!
Mine was a sprig, with the lilac ground; see, in the corner here.
Such goods were high in war times. Ah, that scrap of army blue;
Your bright eyes spied it! Yes, dear child, that has its memories, too.
They sent him home on furlough once--our soldier brother Ned;
But somewhere, now, the dear boy sleeps among the unknown dead.
That flowered patch? Well, now, to think you'd pick that from the rest!
Why, dearie--yes, it's satin ribbed--that's grandpa's wedding vest!
Just odds and ends! no great for looks. My rose quilt's nicer, far,
Or the one in basket pattern, or the double-pointed star.
But, somehow--What! We'll leave it here? The bed won't look so neat,
But I think I would sleep better with it so, across my feet.

The Two Angels

Two angels, one of Life and one of Death,
  Passed o'er our village as the morning broke;
The dawn was on their faces, and beneath,
  The sombre houses hearsed with plumes of smoke.

Their attitude and aspect were the same,
  Alike their features and their robes of white;
But one was crowned with amaranth, as with flame,
  And one with asphodels, like flakes of light.

I saw them pause on their celestial way;
  Then said I, with deep fear and doubt oppressed,
"Beat not so loud, my heart, lest thou betray
  The place where thy beloved are at rest!"

And he who wore the crown of asphodels,
  Descending, at my door began to knock,
And my soul sank within me, as in wells
  The waters sink before an earthquake's shock.

I recognized the nameless agony,
  The terror and the tremor and the pain,
That oft before had filled or haunted me,
  And now returned with threefold strength again.

The door I opened to my heavenly guest,
  And listened, for I thought I heard God's voice;
And, knowing whatsoe'er he sent was best,
  Dared neither to lament nor to rejoice.

Then with a smile, that filled the house with light,
  "My errand is not Death, but Life," he said;
And ere I answered, passing out of sight,
  On his celestial embassy he sped.

'Twas at thy door, O friend! and not at mine,
  The angel with the amaranthine wreath,
Pausing, descended, and with, voice divine,
  Whispered a word that had a sound like Death.

Then fell upon the house a sudden gloom,
  A shadow on those features fair and thin;
And softly, from that hushed and darkened room,
  Two angels issued, where but one went in.

All is of God! If he but waves his hand,
  The mists collect, the rain falls thick and loud,
Till, with a smile of light on sea and land,
  Lo! he looks back from the departing cloud.

Angels of Life and Death alike are his;
  Without his leave they pass no threshold o'er;
Who, then, would wish or dare, believing this,
  Against his messengers to shut the door?

    _Henry W. Longfellow._

The Witch's Daughter

It was the pleasant harvest-time,
  When cellar-bins are closely stowed,
  And garrets bend beneath their load,
And the old swallow-haunted barns--
  Brown-gabled, long, and full of seams
  Through which the moted sunlight streams--

And winds blow freshly in, to shake
  The red plumes of the roosted cocks,
  And the loose hay-mow's scented locks--
Are filled with summer's ripened stores,
  Its odorous grass and barley sheaves,
  From their low scaffolds to their eaves.

On Esek Harden's oaken floor,
  With many an autumn threshing worn,
  Lay the heaped ears of unhusked corn.
And thither came young men and maids,
  Beneath a moon that, large and low,
  Lit that sweet eve of long ago,
They took their places; some by chance,
  And others by a merry voice
  Or sweet smile guided to their choice.

How pleasantly the rising moon,
  Between the shadow of the mows,
  Looked on them through the great elm-boughs!--
On sturdy boyhood, sun-embrowned,
  On girlhood with its solid curves
  Of healthful strength and painless nerves!
And jests went round, and laughs that made
  The house-dog answer with his howl,
  And kept astir the barn-yard fowl.

And quaint old songs their fathers sung,
  In Derby dales and Yorkshire moors,
  Ere Norman William trod their shores;
And tales, whose merry license shook
  The fat sides of the Saxon thane,
  Forgetful of the hovering Dane!

But still the sweetest voice was mute
  That river-valley ever heard
  From lip of maid or throat of bird;
For Mabel Martin sat apart,
  And let the hay-mow's shadow 'fall
  Upon the loveliest face of all.
She sat apart, as one forbid,
  Who knew that none would condescend
  To own the Witch-wife's child a friend.

The seasons scarce had gone their round,
  Since curious thousands thronged to see
  Her mother on the gallows-tree;
And mocked the palsied limbs of age,
  That faltered on the fatal stairs,
  And wan lip trembling with its prayers!

Few questioned of the sorrowing child,
  Or, when they saw the mother die,
  Dreamed of the daughter's agony.
They went up to their homes that day,
  As men and Christians justified:
  God willed it, and the wretch had died!

Dear God and Father of us all,
  Forgive our faith in cruel lies,--
  Forgive the blindness that denies!
Forgive Thy creature when he takes,
  For the all-perfect love Thou art,
  Some grim creation of his heart.
Cast down our idols, overturn
  Our bloody altars; let us see
  Thyself in Thy humanity!

Poor Mabel from her mother's grave
  Crept to her desolate hearth-stone,
  And wrestled with her fate alone;
With love, and anger, and despair,
  The phantoms of disordered sense,
  The awful doubts of Providence!
The school-boys jeered her as they passed,
  And, when she sought the house of prayer,
  Her mother's curse pursued her there.
And still o'er many a neighboring door
  She saw the horseshoe's curved charm,
  To guard against her mother's harm;--

That mother, poor, and sick, and lame,
  Who daily, by the old arm-chair,
  Folded her withered hands in prayer;--
Who turned, in Salem's dreary jail,
  Her worn old Bible o'er and o'er,
  When her dim eyes could read no more!

Sore tried and pained, the poor girl kept
  Her faith, and trusted that her way,
  So dark, would somewhere meet the day.
And still her weary wheel went round,
  Day after day, with no relief:
  Small leisure have the poor for grief.

So in the shadow Mabel sits;
  Untouched by mirth she sees and hears,
  Her smile is sadder than her tears.
But cruel eyes have found her out,
  And cruel lips repeat her name,
  And taunt her with her mother's shame.

She answered not with railing words,
  But drew her apron o'er her face,
  And, sobbing, glided from the place.
And only pausing at the door,
  Her sad eyes met the troubled gaze
  Of one who, in her better days,
Had been her warm and steady friend,
  Ere yet her mother's doom had made
  Even Esek Harden half afraid.

He felt that mute appeal of tears,
  And, starting, with an angry frown
  Hushed all the wicked murmurs down,
"Good neighbors mine," he sternly said,
  "This passes harmless mirth or jest;
  I brook no insult to my guest.

"She is indeed her mother's child;
  But God's sweet pity ministers
  Unto no whiter soul than hers.
Let Goody Martin rest in peace;
  I never knew her harm a fly,
  And witch or not, God knows,--not I.
I know who swore her life away;
  And, as God lives, I'd not condemn
  An Indian dog on word of them."

Poor Mabel, in her lonely home,
  Sat by the window's narrow pane,
  White in the moonlight's silver rain.
The river, on its pebbled rim,
  Made music such as childhood knew;
  The door-yard tree was whispered through
By voices such as childhood's ear
  Had heard in moonlights long ago;
  And through the willow boughs below
She saw the rippled waters shine;
  Beyond, in waves of shade and light
  The hills rolled off into the night.

Sweet sounds and pictures mocking so
  The sadness of her human lot,
  She saw and heard, but heeded not.
She strove to drown her sense of wrong,
  And, in her old and simple way,
  To teach, her bitter heart to pray.

Poor child! the prayer, began in faith,
  Grew to a low, despairing cry
  Of utter misery: "Let me die!
Oh! take me from the scornful eyes,
  And hide me where the cruel speech
  And mocking finger may not reach!

"I dare not breathe my mother's name;
  A daughter's right I dare not crave
  To weep above her unblest grave!
Let me not live until my heart,
  With few to pity, and with none
  To love me, hardens into stone.
O God! have mercy on thy child,
  Whose faith in Thee grows weak and small,
  And take me ere I lose it all."

The broadest lands in all the town,
  The skill to guide, the power to awe,
  Were Harden's; and his word was law.
None dared withstand him to his face,
  But one sly maiden spake aside:
  "The little witch is evil-eyed!
Her mother only killed a cow,
  Or witched a churn or dairy-pan;
  But she, forsooth, must charm a man!"

A shadow on the moonlight fell,
  And murmuring wind and wave became
  A voice whose burden was her name.
Had then God heard her? Had he sent
  His angel down? In flesh and blood,
  Before her Esek Harden stood!

He laid his hand upon her arm:
  "Dear Mabel, this no more shall be;
  Who scoffs at you, must scoff at me.
You know rough Esek Harden well;
  And if he seems no suitor gay,
  And if his hair is mixed with gray,
The maiden grown shall never find
  His heart less warm than when she smiled
  Upon his knees, a little child!"

Her tears of grief were tears of joy,
  As folded in his strong embrace,
  She looked in Esek Harden's face.
"O truest friend of all!" she said,
  "God bless you for your kindly thought,
  And make me worthy of my lot!"

He led her through his dewy fields,
  To where the swinging lanterns glowed,
  And through the doors the huskers showed.
"Good friends and neighbors!" Esek said,
  "I'm weary of this lonely life;
  In Mabel see my chosen wife!

"She greets you kindly, one and all:
  The past is past, and all offence
  Falls harmless from her innocence.
Henceforth she stands no more alone;
  You know what Esek Harden is;--
  He brooks no wrong to him or his."

Now let the merriest tales be told,
  And let the sweetest songs be sung,
  That ever made the old heart young!
For now the lost has found a home;
  And a lone hearth shall brighter burn,
  As all the household joys return!

Oh, pleasantly the harvest moon,
  Between the shadow of the mows,
  Looked on them through the great elm-boughs!
On Mabel's curls of golden hair,
  On Esek's shaggy strength it fell;
  And the wind whispered, "It is well!"

    _John G. Whittier._

David's Lament for Absalom

King David's limbs were weary. He had fled
From far Jerusalem; and now he stood
With his faint people for a little rest
Upon the shore of Jordan. The light wind
Of morn was stirring, and he bared his brow
To its refreshing breath; for he had worn
The mourner's covering, and he had not felt
That he could see his people until now.

They gathered round him on the fresh green bank
And spoke their kindly words, and as the sun
Rose up in heaven he knelt among them there,
And bowed his head upon his hands to pray.
Oh! when the heart is full--where bitter thoughts
Come crowding thickly up for utterance,
And the poor common words of courtesy,--
Are such a mockery--how much
The bursting heart may pour itself in prayer!
He prayed for Israel--and his voice went up
Strongly and fervently. He prayed for those
Whose love had been his shield--and his deep tones
Grew tremulous. But, oh! for Absalom,
For his estranged, misguided Absalom--
The proud, bright being who had burst away
In all his princely beauty to defy
The heart that cherished him--for him he prayed,
In agony that would not be controll'd,
Strong supplication, and forgave him there
Before his God for his deep sinfulness.

The pall was settled. He who slept beneath
Was straightened for the grave, and as the folds
Sank to their still proportions, they betrayed
The matchless symmetry of Absalom,
The mighty Joab stood beside the bier
And gazed upon the dark pall steadfastly,
As if he feared the slumberer might stir.
A slow step startled him. He grasped his blade
As if a trumpet rang, but the bent form
Of David entered; and he gave command
In a low tone to his few followers,
And left him with the dead.

    The King stood still
Till the last echo died; then, throwing off
The sackcloth from his brow, and laying back
The pall from the still features of his child.
He bowed his head upon him and broke forth
In the resistless eloquence of woe:

"Alas! my noble boy; that thou shouldst die!
  Thou who were made so beautifully fair!
That death should settle in thy glorious eye,
  And leave his stillness in this clustering hair!
How could he mark thee for the silent tomb,
    My proud boy, Absalom!

"Cold is thy brow, my son! and I am chill
  As to my bosom I have tried to press thee!
How was I wont to feel my pulses thrill
  Like a rich harp-string yearning to caress thee,
And hear thy sweet 'my father!' from those dumb
    And cold lips, Absalom!

"But death is on thee! I shall hear the gush
  Of music, and the voices of the young;
And life will pass me in the mantling blush,
  And the dark tresses to the soft winds flung;--
But thou no more, with thy sweet voice, shalt come
    To meet me, Absalom!

"And oh! when I am stricken, and my heart,
  Like a bruised reed, is waiting to be broken,
How will its love for thee, as I depart,
  Yearn for thine ear to drink its last deep token!
It were so sweet, amid death's gathering gloom,
    To see thee, Absalom!

"And now, farewell! 'Tis hard to give thee up,
  With death so like a gentle slumber on thee!--
And thy dark sin! Oh! I could drink the cup,
  If from this woe its bitterness had won thee.
May God have called thee, like a wanderer, home,
    My lost boy, Absalom!"

He covered up his face, and bowed himself
A moment on his child; then, giving him
A look of melting tenderness, he clasped
His hands convulsively, as if in prayer,
And, as if strength were given him of God,
He rose up calmly, and composed the pall
Firmly and decently--and left him there,
As if his rest had been a breathing sleep.

    _N.P. Willis_.

Christmas Day in the Workhouse

It is Christmas day in the workhouse,
  And the cold bare walls are bright
With garlands of green and holly,
  And the place is a pleasant sight:
For with clean-washed hands and faces,
  In a long and hungry line
The paupers sit at the tables,
  For this is the hour they dine.

And the guardians and their ladies,
  Although the wind is east,
Have come in their furs and wrappers
  To watch their charges feast;
To smile and be condescending,
  Put pudding on pauper plates,
To be hosts at the workhouse banquet
  They've paid for--with the rates.

Oh, the paupers are meek and lowly
  With their "Thank'ee kindly, mum's";
So long as they fill their stomachs,
  What matter whence it comes?
But one of the old men mutters,
  And pushes his plate aside:
"Great God!" he cries; "but it chokes me;
  For this is the day _she_ died."

The guardians gazed in horror,
  The master's face went white:
"Did a pauper refuse their pudding?"
  "Could their ears believe aright?"
Then the ladies clutched their husbands
  Thinking the man would die,
Struck by a bolt, or something,
  By the outraged One on high.

But the pauper sat for a moment,
  Then rose 'mid a silence grim,
For the others had ceased to chatter,
  And trembled in every limb.
He looked at the guardians' ladies,
  Then, eyeing their lords, he said:
"I eat not the food of villains
  Whose hands are foul and red,

"Whose victims cry for vengeance
  From their dark unhallowed graves."
"He's drunk!" said the workhouse master,
  "Or else he's mad, and raves."
"Not drunk or mad," cried the pauper,
  "But only a hunted beast,
Who, torn by the hounds and mangled,
  Declines the vulture's feast.

"I care not a curse for the guardians,
  And I won't be dragged away.
Just let me have the fit out,
  It's only on Christmas day
That the black past comes to goad me,
  And prey on my burning brain,
I'll tell you the rest in a whisper,--
  I swear I won't shout again,

"Keep your hands off me, curse you!
  Hear me right out to the end,
You come here to see how paupers
  The season of Christmas spend.
You come here to watch us feeding,
  As they watch the captured beast,
Hear why a penniless pauper
  Spits on your palfry feast.

"Do you think I will take your bounty,
  And let you smile and think
You're doing a noble action
  With the parish's meat and drink?
Where is my wife, you traitors--
  The poor old wife you slew?
Yes, by the God above us,
  My Nance was killed by you!

"Last winter my wife lay dying,
  Starved in a filthy den;
I had never been to the parish,--
  I came to the parish then.
I swallowed my pride in coming,
  For, ere the ruin came.
I held up my head as a trader,
  And I bore a spotless name.

"I came to the parish, craving
  Bread for a starving wife,
Bread for the woman who'd loved me
  Through fifty years of life;
And what do you think they told me,
  Mocking my awful grief?
That 'the House' was open to us,
  But they wouldn't give 'out relief.'

"I slunk to the filthy alley--
 'Twas a cold, raw Christmas eve--
And the bakers' shops were open,
  Tempting a man to thieve:
But I clenched my fists together,
  Holding my head awry,
So I came to her empty-handed
  And mournfully told her why.

"Then I told her 'the House' was open;
  She had heard of the ways of _that_,
For her bloodless cheeks went crimson,
  And up in her rags she sat,
Crying, 'Bide the Christmas here, John,
  We've never had one apart;
I think I can bear the hunger,--
  The other would break my heart.'

"All through that eve I watched her,
  Holding her hand in mine,
Praying the Lord, and weeping
  Till my lips were salt as brine.
I asked her once if she hungered,
  And as she answered 'No,'
The moon shone in at the window
  Set in a wreath of snow.

"Then the room was bathed in glory,
  And I saw in my darling's eyes
The far-away look of wonder
  That comes when the spirit flies;
And her lips were parched and parted,
  And her reason came and went,
For she raved of our home in Devon
  Where our happiest years were spent.

"And the accents, long forgotten,
  Came back to the tongue once more,
For she talked like the country lassie
  I woo'd by the Devon shore.
Then she rose to her feet and trembled,
  And fell on the rags and moaned,
And, 'Give me a crust--I'm famished--
  For the love of God!' she groaned.

"I rushed from the room like a madman,
  And flew to the workhouse gate,
Crying 'Food for a dying woman?'
  And the answer came, 'Too late.'
They drove me away with curses;
  Then I fought with a dog in the street,
And tore from the mongrel's clutches
  A crust he was trying to eat.

"Back, through the filthy by-lanes!
  Back, through the trampled slush!
Up to the crazy garret,
  Wrapped in an awful hush.
My heart sank down at the threshold,
  And I paused with a sudden thrill,
For there in the silv'ry moonlight
  My Nance lay, cold and still.

"Up to the blackened ceiling
  The sunken eyes were cast--
I knew on those lips all bloodless
  My name had been the last:
She'd called for her absent husband--
  O God! had I but known!--
Had called in vain, and in anguish
  Had died in that den--_alone_.

"Yes, there, in a land of plenty,
  Lay a loving woman dead,
Cruelly starved and murdered
  For a loaf of the parish bread.
At yonder gate, last Christmas,
  I craved for a human life.
You, who would feast us paupers,
  _What of my murdered wife!_

       *       *       *       *       *

"There, get ye gone to you dinners;
  Don't mind me in the least;
Think of the happy paupers
  Eating your Christmas feast;
And when you recount their blessings
  In your snug, parochial way,
Say what you did for _me_, too,
  Only last Christmas Day."

    _George R. Sims._

Our Presidents--A Memory Rhyme

First on the list is Washington, Virginia's proudest name;
John Adams next, the Federalist, from Massachusetts came;
Three sons of old Virginia into the White House go--
'Twas Jefferson, and Madison, and then came James Monroe.

Massachusetts for one term sent Adams called John Q.,
And Tennessee a Democrat, brave Jackson staunch and true.
Martin Van Buren of New York, and Harrison we see,
And Tyler of Virginia, and Polk of Tennessee.

Louisiana Taylor sent; New York Millard Fillmore;
New Hampshire gave us Franklin Pierce; when his term was o'er
The keystone state Buchanan sent.  War thunders shook the realm
Abe Lincoln wore a martyr's crown, and Johnson took the helm.

Then U.S. Grant of Illinois who ruled with sword and pen;
And Hayes, and Garfield who was shot, two noble Buckeye men.
Chester Arthur from New York, and Grover Cleveland came;
Ben Harrison served just four years, then Cleveland ruled again.

McKinley--shot at Buffalo--the nation plunged in grief,
And "Teddy" Roosevelt of New York served seven years as chief.
Taft of Ohio followed him. Then Woodrow Wilson came--
New Jersey's learned Democrat; war set the world aflame;

And when the tide of strife and hate its baneful course had run,
The country went Republican and Warren Harding won.
No duty would he shirk,--he died while on a western trip;
Coolidge of Massachusetts then assumed the leadership.

    _Isabel Ambler Gilman._

Annie and Willie's Prayer

'Twas the eve before Christmas; "Good night" had been said,
And Annie and Willie had crept into bed;
There were tears on their pillows, and tears in their eyes,
And each little bosom was heaving with sighs,
For to-night their stern father's command had been given
That they should retire precisely at seven
Instead of at eight; for they troubled him more
With questions unheard of than ever before;
He had told them he thought this delusion a sin,
No such being as Santa Claus ever had been,
And he hoped, after this, he should never more hear
How he scrambled down chimneys with presents, each year,
And this was the reason that two little heads
So restlessly tossed on their soft downy beds.

Eight, nine, and the clock on the steeple tolled ten;
Not a word had been spoken by either till then;
When Willie's sad face from the blanket did peep,
And whispered, "Dear Annie, is oo fast asleep?"
"Why, no, brother Willie," a sweet voice replies,
"I've tried it in vain, but I can't shut my eyes;
For somehow, it makes me so sorry because
Dear papa has said there is no Santa Claus;
Now we know there is, and it can't be denied,
For he came every year before mamma died;
But then I've been thinking that she used to pray,
And God would hear everything mamma would say;
And perhaps she asked him to send Santa Claus here
With the sacks full of presents he brought every year."
"Well, why tant we pray dest as mamma did then,
And ask Him to send him with presents aden?"
"I've been thinking so, too," and, without a word more,
Four little bare feet bounded out on the floor,
And four little knees the soft carpet pressed,
And two tiny hands were clasped close to each breast.
"Now, Willie, you know we must firmly believe
That the presents we ask for we're sure to receive;
You must wait just as still till I say the 'Amen,'
And by that you will know that your turn has come then.
Dear Jesus, look down on my brother and me.
And grant as the favor we are asking of Thee!
I want a wax dolly, a tea-set and ring,
And an ebony work-box that shuts with a spring.
Bless papa, dear Jesus, and cause him to see
That Santa Claus loves us far better than he;
Don't let him get fretful and angry again
At dear brother Willie, and Annie, Amen!"
"Peas Desus 'et Santa Taus tum down to-night,
And bing us some pesents before it is 'ight;
I want he should div me a nice ittle sed,
With bight, shiny unners, and all painted yed;
A box full of tandy, a book and a toy--
Amen--and then Desus, I'll be a dood boy."
Their prayers being ended they raised up their heads,
And with hearts light and cheerful again sought their beds;
They were soon lost in slumber both peaceful and deep,
And with fairies in dreamland were roaming in sleep.

Eight, nine, and the little French clock had struck ten
Ere the father had thought of his children again;
He seems now to hear Annie's half suppressed sighs,
And to see the big tears stand in Willie's blue eyes.
"I was harsh with my darlings," he mentally said,
"And should not have sent them so early to bed;
But then I was troubled,--my feelings found vent,
For bank-stock to-day has gone down ten per cent.
But of course they've forgotten their troubles ere this,
And that I denied them the thrice asked-for kiss;
But just to make sure I'll steal up to their door,
For I never spoke harsh to my darlings before."
So saying, he softly ascended the stairs,
And arrived at the door to hear both of their prayers.
His Annie's "bless papa" draws forth the big tears,
And Willie's grave promise falls sweet on his ears.
"Strange, strange I'd forgotten," said he with a sigh,
"How I longed when a child to have Christmas draw nigh.
I'll atone for my harshness," he inwardly said,
"By answering their prayers, ere I sleep in my bed."

Then he turned to the stairs, and softly went down,
Threw off velvet slippers and silk dressing-gown;
Donned hat, coat, and boots, and was out in the street,
A millionaire facing the cold driving sleet,
Nor stopped he until he had bought everything,
From the box full of candy to the tiny gold ring.
Indeed he kept adding so much to his store
That the various presents outnumbered a score;
Then homeward he turned with his holiday load
And with Aunt Mary's aid in the nursery 'twas stowed.
Miss Dolly was seated beneath a pine-tree,
By the side of a table spread out for a tea;
A work-box well filled in the centre was laid,
And on it the ring for which Annie had prayed;
A soldier in uniform stood by a sled
With bright shining runners, and all painted red;
There were balls, dogs and horses, books pleasing to see,
And birds of all colors--were perched in the tree,
While Santa Claus, laughing, stood up in the top,
As if getting ready more presents to drop.
And as the fond father the picture surveyed,
He thought for his trouble he had amply been paid;
And he said to himself as he brushed off a tear,
"I'm happier to-night than I've been for a year,
I've enjoyed more true pleasure than ever before--
What care I if bank-stocks fall ten per cent more.
Hereafter I'll make it a rule, I believe,
To have Santa Claus visit us each Christmas eve."
So thinking he gently extinguished the light,
And tripped down the stairs to retire for the night.

As soon as the beams of the bright morning sun
Put the darkness to flight, and the stars, one by one,
Four little blue eyes out of sleep opened wide,
And at the same moment the presents espied;
Then out of their beds they sprang with a bound,
And the very gifts prayed for were all of them found;
They laughed and they cried in their innocent glee,
And shouted for papa to come quick and see
What presents old Santa Claus brought in the night
(Just the things that they wanted) and left before light;
"And now," added Annie, in a voice soft and low,
"You'll believe there's a Santa, Clans, papa, I know";
While dear little Willie climbed up on his knee,
Determined no secret between them should be,
And told in soft whispers how Annie had said
That their blessed mamma, so long ago dead,
Used to kneel down and pray by the side of her chair,
And that God, up in heaven, had answered her prayer!
"Then we dot up, and payed dust as well as we tould,
And Dod answered our payers; now wasn't he dood?"

"I should say that he was if he sent you all these,
And knew just what presents my children would please.
Well, well, let him think so, the dear little elf,
'Twould be cruel to tell him I did it myself."

Blind father! who caused your proud heart to relent,
And the hasty word spoken so soon to repent?
'Twas the Being who made you steal softly upstairs,
And made you His agent to answer their prayers.

    _Sophia P. Snow._

Trailing Arbutus

I wandered lonely where the pine-trees made
Against the bitter East their barricade,
  And, guided by its sweet
Perfume, I found, within a narrow dell,
The trailing spring flower tinted like a shell
  Amid dry leaves and mosses at my feet.

From under dead boughs, for whose loss the pines
Moaned ceaseless overhead, the blossoming vines
  Lifted their glad surprise,
While yet the bluebird smoothed in leafless trees
His feathers ruffled by the chill sea-breeze,
  And snow-drifts lingered under April skies.

As, pausing, o'er the lonely flower I bent,
I thought of lives thus lowly clogged and pent,
  Which yet find room,
Through care and cumber, coldness and decay,
To lend a sweetness to the ungenial day
  And make the sad earth happier for their bloom.

    _J.G. Whittier._

When the Light Goes Out

Tho' yer lamp o' life is burnin' with a clear and steady light,
An' it never seems ter flicker, but it's allers shinin' bright;
Tho' it sheds its rays unbroken for a thousand happy days--
Father Time is ever turnin' down the wick that feeds yer blaze.
So it clearly is yer duty ef you've got a thing to do
Ter put yer shoulder to ther wheel an' try to push her through;
Ef yer upon a wayward track you better turn about--
You've lost ther chance to do it
  When the
    Light
      Goes
        Out.

Speak kindly to the woman who is working fer yer praise,
Ther same way as you used ter in those happy courtin' days;
She likes appreciation just the same ez me an' you,
And it's only right and proper that yer give her what is due.
Don't wait until her lamp o' life is burnin' dim an' low,
Afore you tell her what you orter told her long ago--
Now's ther time ter cheer her up an' put her blues to rout--
You've lost ther chance to do it
  When the
    Light
      Goes
        Out.

Don't keep a-puttin' matters off an' settin' dates ahead--
To-morrow's sun'll find a hundred thousand of us dead;
Don't think because yer feelin well you won't be sick no more--
Sometimes the reddest pippin has a  worm-hole to the core.
Don't let a killin' habit grow upon you soft and still
Because you think thet you ken throw  it from you at your will--
Now's ther time ter quit it when yer feelin' brave an' stout--
You've lost ther chance to do it
  When the
    Light
      Goes
        Out.

I'd rather die with nothin' then ter hev ther people say
That I had got my money in a robbin', graspin' way;
No words above my restin' place from any tongue or pen
Would hev a deeper meanin' than "He helped his fellow-men."
So ef you hev a fortune and you want to help the poor,
Don't keep a-stavin' off until yon get a little more;
Ef yer upon a miser's track you better turn about--
Yer record keeps on burnin'
  When the
    Light
      Goes
        Out.

    _Harry S. Chester._

Prayer and Potatoes

An old lady sat in her old arm-chair,
With wrinkled visage and disheveled hair,
  And pale and hunger-worn features;
For days and for weeks her only fare,
As she sat there in her old arm-chair,
  Had been potatoes.

But now they were gone; of bad or good.
Not one was left for the old lady's food
  Of those potatoes;
And she sighed and said, "What shall I do?
Where shall I send, and to whom shall I go
  For more potatoes?"

And she thought of the deacon over the way,
The deacon so ready to worship and pray,
  Whose cellar was full of potatoes;
And she said: "I will send for the deacon to come;
He'll not mind much to give me some
  Of such a store of potatoes."

And the deacon came over as fast as he could,
Thinking to do the old lady some good,
  But never thought of potatoes;
He asked her at once what was her chief want,
And she, simple soul, expecting a grant,
  Immediately answered, "Potatoes."

But the deacon's religion didn't lie that way;
He was more accustomed to preach and pray
  Than to give of his hoarded potatoes;
So, not hearing, of course, what the old lady said,
He rose to pray with uncovered head,
  But _she_ only thought of potatoes.

He prayed for patience, and wisdom, and grace,
But when he prayed, "Lord, give her peace,"
  She audibly sighed "Give potatoes";
And at the end of each prayer which he said,
He heard, or thought that he heard in its stead,
  The same request for potatoes.

The deacon was troubled; knew not what to do;
'Twas very embarrassing to have her act so
  About "those carnal potatoes."
So, ending his prayer, he started for home;
As the door closed behind him, he heard a deep groan,
  "Oh, give to the hungry, potatoes!"

And that groan followed him all the way home;
In the midst of the night it haunted his room--
  "Oh, give to the hungry, potatoes!"
He could bear it no longer; arose and dressed;
From his well-filled cellar taking in haste
  A bag of his best potatoes.

Again he went to the widow's lone hut;
Her sleepless eyes she had not shut;
But there she sat in that old arm-chair,
With the same wan features, the same sad air,
And, entering in, he poured on the floor
A bushel or more from his goodly store
  Of choicest potatoes.

The widow's cup was running o'er,
Her face was haggard and wan no more.
"Now," said the deacon, "shall we pray?"
"Yes," said the widow, "_now_ you may."
And he kneeled him down on the sanded floor,
Where he had poured his goodly store,
And such a prayer the deacon prayed
As never before his lips essayed;
No longer embarrassed, but free and full,
He poured out the voice of a liberal soul,
And the widow responded aloud "Amen!"
  But spake no more of potatoes.

And would you, who hear this simple tale,
Pray for the poor, and praying, "prevail"?
Then preface your prayers with alms and good deeds;
Search out the poor, their wants and their needs;
Pray for peace, and grace, and spiritual food,
For wisdom and guidance,-for all these are good,--
  _But don't forget the potatoes_.

    _J.T. Pettee._

The Parts of Speech

Three little words you often see
Are articles _a_, _an_, and _the_.
A noun's the name of anything,
As _house_ or _garden_, _hoop_ or _swing_.
Instead of nouns the pronouns stand--
_Her_ head, _your_ face, _his_ arm, _my_ hand.
Adjectives tell the kind of noun,
As _great_, _small_, _pretty_, _white_ or _brown_.
Verbs tell something to be done--
To _read_, _count_, _sing_, _laugh_ or _run_.
How things are done the adverbs tell,
As _slowly_, _quickly_, _ill_ or _well_.
Conjunctions join the words together,
As men _and_ women, wind _or_ weather.
The preposition stands before
A noun, as _in_ or _through_ a door.
The interjection shows surprise,
As _oh!_ how pretty, _ah!_ how wise.
The whole are called nine parts of speech,
Which reading, writing, speaking teach.

A New Leaf

He came to my desk with, quivering lip--
  The lesson was done.
"Dear Teacher, I want a new leaf," he said,
  "I have spoiled this one."
I took the old leaf, stained and blotted,
And gave him a new one all unspotted,
  And into his sad eyes smiled,
  "Do better, now, my child."

I went to the throne with a quivering soul--
  The old year was done.
"Dear Father, hast Thou a new leaf for me?
  I have spoiled this one."
He took the old leaf, stained and blotted,
And gave me a new one all unspotted,
  And into my sad heart smiled,
  "Do better, now, my child."

    _Carrie Shaw Rice._

The Boy With the Hoe

How are you hoeing your row, my boy?
  Say, how are you hoeing your row?
    Do you hoe it fair?
    Do you hoe it square?
  Do you hoe it the best that you know?
Do you cut out the weeds as you ought to do?
  Do you plant what is beautiful there?
    For the harvest, you know,
    Will be just what you sow;
  Are you working it on the square?

Say, are you killing the weeds, my boy?
  Are you hoeing your row neat and clean?
    Are you going straight
    At a hustling gait?
  Are you cutting out all that is mean?
Do you whistle and sing as you toil along?
  Are you finding your work a delight?
    If you do it this way
    You will gladden the day,
  And your row will be tended right.

Hoeing your row with a will, my boy,
  And giving it thought and care,
    Will insure success
    And your efforts bless,
  As the crop to the garner you bear;
For the world will look on as you hoe your row,
  And will judge you by that which you do;
    Therefore, try for first prize,
    Though your utmost it tries,
  For the harvest depends on you.

    _T.B. Weaver._

Our Flag

Fling it from mast and steeple,
  Symbol o'er land and sea
Of the life of a happy people,
  Gallant and strong and free.
Proudly we view its colors,
  Flag of the brave and true,
With the clustered stars and the steadfast bars,
  The red, the white, and the blue.

Flag of the fearless-hearted,
  Flag of the broken chain,
Flag in a day-dawn started,
  Never to pale or wane.
Dearly we prize its colors,
  With the heaven light breaking through,
The clustered stars and the steadfast bars,
  The red, the white, and the blue.

Flag of the sturdy fathers,
  Flag of the loyal sons,
Beneath its folds it gathers
  Earth's best and noblest ones.
Boldly we wave its colors,
  Our veins are thrilled anew
By the steadfast bars, the clustered stars,
  The red, the white, and the blue.

    _Margaret E. Sangster._

The Little Fir-Trees

Hey! little evergreens,
  Sturdy and strong,
Summer and autumn-time
  Hasten along.
Harvest the sunbeams, then,
  Bind them in sheaves,
Range them and change them
  To tufts of green leaves.
Delve in the mellow-mold,
  Far, far below.
  And so,
  Little evergreens, grow!
  Grow! Grow!
  Grow, little evergreens, grow!

Up, up so airily,
  To the blue sky,
Lift up your leafy tips
  Stately and high;
Clasp tight your tiny cones,
  Tawny and brown,
By and by buffeting
  Rains will pelt down.
By and by bitterly
  Chill winds will blow,
  And so,
  Little evergreens, grow!
  Grow! Grow!
  Grow, little evergreens, grow!

Gather all uttermost
  Beauty, because,--
Hark, till I tell it now!
  How Santa Claus,
Out of the northern land,
  Over the seas,
Soon shall come seeking you,
  Evergreen trees!
Seek you with reindeer soon,
  Over the snow:
  And so,
  Little evergreens, grow!
  Grow! Grow!
  Grow, little evergreens, grow!

What if the maple flare
  Flaunting and red,
You shall wear waxen white
  Taper instead.
What if now, otherwhere,
  Birds are beguiled,
You shall yet nestle
  The little Christ-Child.
Ah! the strange splendor
  The fir-trees shall know!
  And so,
  Little evergreens, grow!
  Grow! Grow!
  Grow, little evergreens, grow!

    _Evaleen Stein._

He Worried About It

The sun's heat will give out in ten million years more--
    And he worried about it.
It will sure give out then, if it doesn't before--
    And he worried about it.
  It will surely give out, so the scientists said
  In all scientifical books he had read,
  And the whole boundless universe then will be dead--
    And he worried about it.

And some day the earth will fall into the sun--
    And he worried about it--
Just as sure and as straight as if shot from a gun--
    And he worried about it.
  When strong gravitation unbuckles her straps,
  "Just picture," he said, "what a fearful collapse!
  It will come in a few million ages, perhaps"--
    And he worried about it.

And the earth will become much too small for the race--
    And he worried about it--
When we'll pay thirty dollars an inch for pure space--
    And he worried about it.
  The earth will be crowded so much, without doubt,
  That there won't be room for one's tongue to stick out,
  Nor room for one's thought to wander about--
    And he worried about it.

And the Gulf Stream will curve, and New England grow torrider--
    And he worried about it--
Than was ever the climate of southernmost Florida--
    And he worried about it.
  Our ice crop will be knocked into small smithereens,
  And crocodiles block up our mowing-machines,
  And we'll lose our fine crops of potatoes and beans--
    And he worried about it.

And in less than ten thousand years, there's no doubt--
    And he worried about it--
Our supply of lumber and coal will give out--
    And he worried about it.
  Just then the ice-age will return cold and raw,
  Frozen men will stand stiff with arms outstretched in awe,
  As if vainly beseeching a general thaw--
    And he worried about it.

His wife took in washing--half a dollar a day--
    He didn't worry about it--
His daughter sewed shirts the rude grocer to pay--
    He didn't worry about it.
  While his wife beat her tireless rub-a-dub-dub
  On the washboard drum of her old wooden tub,
  He sat by the stoves and he just let her rub--
    He didn't worry about it.

    _Sam Walter Foss._

The President

No gilt or tinsel taints the dress
Of him who holds the natal power,
No weighty helmet's fastenings press
On brow that shares Columbia's dower,
No blaring trumpets mark the step
Of him with mind on peace intent,
And so--HATS OFF! Here comes the State,
A modest King:
      THE PRESIDENT.

No cavalcade with galloping squads
Surrounds this man, whose mind controls
The actions of the million minds
Whose hearts the starry banner folds;
Instead, in simple garb he rides,
The King to whom grim Fate has lent
Her dower of righteousness and faith
To guide his will:
      THE PRESIDENT.

The ancient lands are struck with awe,
Here stands a power at which they  scoffed,
Kings, rulers, scribes of pristine states.
Are dazed,--at Columbia they mocked;
Yet human wills have forged new states,
Their wills on justice full intent,
And fashioned here a lowly King,
The People's choice:
      THE PRESIDENT.

War-ravaged, spent, and torn--old worlds
With hatred rent, turn to the West,
"Give help!" they cry--"our souls are wracked,
On every side our kingdom's pressed."
And see! Columbia hastens forth,
Her healing hand to peace is lent,
Her sword unsheathed has forged the calm,
Her sons sent by
      THE PRESIDENT.

Full many a storm has tossed the barque
Since first it had its maiden trip,
Full many a conflagration's spark
Has scorched and seared the laboring ship;
And yet it ploughs a straightway course,
Through wrack of billows; wind-tossed, spent,
On sails the troubled Ship of State,
Steered forward by
      THE PRESIDENT.

STAND UP! HATS OFF! He's coming by,
No roll of drums peals at his course,
NOW GIVE A CHEER! He's part of you,
Your will with his: the nation's force.
And--as he passes--breathe a prayer,
May justice to his mind be lent,
And may the grace of Heaven be with
The man who rules:
      OUR PRESIDENT.

    _Charles H.L. Johnston._

Lullaby

Sleepy little, creepy little goblins in the gloaming,
  With their airy little, fairy little faces all aglow,
Winking little, blinking little brownies gone a-roaming,
  Hear the rustling little, bustling little footfalls as they go.
Laughing little, chaffing little voices sweetly singing
  In the dearest little, queerest little baby lullabies,
    Creep! Creep! Creep!
    Time to go to sleep!
Baby playing 'possum with his big brown eyes!

Cricket in the thicket with the oddest little clatter
  Sings his rattling little, prattling little, tattling little tune;
Fleet the feet of tiny stars go patter, patter, patter,
  As they scamper from the heavens at the rising of the moon.
Beaming little, gleaming little fireflies go dreaming
  To the dearest little, queerest little baby lullabies.
    Creep! Creep! Creep!
    Time to go to sleep!
Baby playing 'possum with his big brown eyes!

Quaking little, shaking little voices all a-quiver
  In the mushy little, rushy little, weedy, reedy bogs,
Droning little, moaning little chorus by the river,
  In the croaking little, joking little cadence of the frogs.
Eerie little, cheery little glowworms in the gloaming
  Where the clover heads like fairy little nightcaps rise,
    Creep! Creep! Creep!
    Time to go to sleep!
Baby playing 'possum with his big brown eyes!

    _J.W. Foley._

Chums

If we should be shipwrecked together
And only had water for one,
And it was the hottest of weather
Right out in the boiling sun,
He'd tell me--no matter how bad he
Might want it--to take a drink first;
And then he would smile--oh, so glad he
Had saved me!--and perish from thirst!

Or, if we were lost on the prairie
And only had food for a day,
He'd come and would give me the share he
Had wrapped up and hidden away;
And after I ate it with sadness
He'd smile with his very last breath,
And lay himself down full of gladness
To save me--and starve right to death.

And if I was wounded in battle
And out where great danger might be,
He'd come through the roar and the rattle
Of guns and of bullets to me,
He'd carry me out, full of glory,
No matter what trouble he had,
And then he would fall down, all gory
With wounds, and would die--but be glad!

We're chums--that's the reason he'd do it;
And that's what a chum ought to be.
And if it was fire he'd go through it,
If I should call him to me.
You see other fellows may know you,
And friends that you have go and come;
But a boy has one boy he can go to,
For help all the time--that's his chum.

    _J.W. Foley._

Jim Brady's Big Brother

Jim Brady's big brother's a wonderful lad,
And wonderful, wonderful muscles he had;
He swung by one arm from the limb of a tree
And hung there while Jim counted up forty-three
Just as slow as he could; and he leaped at a bound
Across a wide creek and lit square on the ground
Just as light as a deer; and the things he can do,
So Jimmy told us, you would hardly think true.

Jim Brady's big brother could throw a fly ball
From center to home just like nothing at all;
And often while playing a game he would stand
And take a high fly with just only one hand;
Jim Brady showed us where he knocked a home run
And won the big game when it stood three to one
Against the home team, and Jim Brady, he showed
The place where it lit in the old wagon road!

Jim Brady's big brother could bat up a fly
That you hardly could see, for it went up so high;
He'd bring up his muscle and break any string
That you tied on his arm like it wasn't a thing!
He used to turn handsprings, and cartwheels, and he
Could jump through his hands just as slick as could be,
And circuses often would want him to go
And be in the ring, but his mother said no.

Jim Brady's big brother would often make bets
With boys that he'd turn two complete summersets
From off of the spring-board before he would dive,
And you'd hardly think he would come up alive;
And nobody else who went there to swim
Could do it, but it was just easy for him;
And they'd all be scared, so Jim said, when he'd stay
In under and come up a half mile away.

Jim Brady's big brother, so Jim said, could run
Five miles in a race just as easy as one.
Right often he walked on his hands half a block
And could have walked more if he'd wanted to walk!
And Jimmy says wait till he comes home from school,
Where he is gone now, and some day, when it's cool,
He'll get him to prove everything to be true
That Jimmy told us his big brother could do!

    _J.W. Foley._

The Gray Swan

"Oh tell me, sailor, tell me true,
Is my little lad, my Elihu,
  A-sailing with your ship?"
The sailor's eyes were dim with dew,--
"Your little lad, your Elihu?"
  He said with trembling lip,--
  "What little lad? what ship?"

"What little lad! as if there could be
Another such a one as he!
  What little lad, do you say?
Why, Elihu, that took to the sea
The moment I put him off my knee!
  It was just the other day
  The _Gray Swan_ sailed away."

"The other day?" the sailor's eyes
Stood open with a great surprise,--
  "The other day? the _Swan?_"
His heart began in his throat to rise.
"Ay, ay, sir, here in the cupboard lies
  The jacket he had on."
  "And so your lad is gone?"

"Gone with the _Swan_." "And did she stand
With her anchor clutching hold of the sand,
  For a month, and never stir?"
"Why, to be sure! I've seen from the land,
Like a lover kissing his lady's hand,
  The wild sea kissing her,--
  A sight to remember, sir."

"But, my good mother, do you know
All this was twenty years ago?
  I stood on the _Gray Swan's_ deck,
And to that lad I saw you throw,
Taking it off, as it might be, so,
  The kerchief from your neck."
  "Ay, and he'll bring it back!"

"And did the little lawless lad
That has made you sick and made you sad,
  Sail with the _Gray Swan's_ crew?"
"Lawless! the man is going mad!
The best boy ever mother had,--
  Be sure he sailed with the crew!
  What would you have him do?"

"And he has never written line,
Nor sent you word, nor made you sign
  To say he was alive?"
"Hold! if 'twas wrong, the wrong is mine;
Besides, he may be in the brine,
  And could he write from the grave?
  Tut, man, what would you have?"

"Gone twenty years,--a long, long cruise,
'Twas wicked thus your love to abuse;
  But if the lad still live,
And come back home, think you you can
Forgive him?"--"Miserable man,
  You're mad as the sea,--you rave,--
  What have I to forgive?"

The sailor twitched his shirt so blue,
And from within his bosom drew
  The kerchief. She was wild.
"My God! my Father! is it true
My little lad, My Elihu?
  My blessed boy, my child!
  My dead,--my living child!"

    _Alice Cary._

The Circling Year

SPRING

The joys of living wreathe my face,
My heart keeps time to freshet's race;
Of balmy airs I drink my fill--
Why, there's a yellow daffodil!
Along the stream a soft green tinge
Gives hint of feathery willow fringe;
Methinks I heard a Robin's "Cheer"--
  I'm glad Spring's here!

SUMMER

An afternoon of buzzing flies.
Heat waves that sear, and quivering rise;
The long white road, the plodding team,
The deep, cool grass in which to dream;
The distant cawing of the crows,
Tall, waving grain, long orchard rows;
The peaceful cattle in the stream--
  Midsummer's dream!

AUTUMN

A cold, gray day, a lowering sky,
A lonesome pigeon wheeling by;
The soft, blue smoke that hangs and fades,
The shivering crane that flaps and wades;
Dead leaves that, whispering, quit their tree,
The peace the river sings to me;
The chill aloofness of the Fall--
  I love it all!

WINTER

A sheet of ice, the ring of steel,
The crunch of snow beneath the heel;
Loud, jingling bells, the straw-lined sleigh,
A restless pair that prance and neigh;
The early coming of the night,
Red glowing logs, a shaded light;
The firelit realm of books is mine--
  Oh, Winter's fine!

    _Ramona Graham._

INDEX OF FIRST LINES

The district school-master was sitting behind his great book-laden

Transcriber's note:

   The poem "Try Try Again" is not credited with an author in
   the table of contents. The author of this poem is _William E.
   Hickerson_.LOVE-SONGS OF CHILDHOOD

By Eugene Field

To Mrs. Belle Angler

Dearest Aunt:

Many years ago you used to rock me to sleep, cradling me in your
arms and singing me petty songs.  Surely you have not forgotten
that time, and I recall it with tenderness.  You were very
beautiful then.  But you are more beautiful now; for, in the years
that have come and gone since then, the joys and the sorrows of
maternity have impressed their saintly grace upon the dear face I
used to kiss, and have made your gentle heart gentler still.

Beloved lady, in memory of years to be recalled only in thought,
and in token of my gratitude and affection, I bring you these
little love-songs, and reverently I lay them at your feet.

Eugene Field

Contents:

     THE ROCK-A-BY LADY
     "BOOH"!
     GARDEN AND CRADLE
     THE NIGHT WIND
     KISSING TIME
     JEST 'FORE CHRISTMAS
     BEARD AND BABY
     THE DINKEY-BIRD
     THE DRUM
     THE DEAD BABE
     THE HAPPY HOUSEHOLD
     So, so, ROCK-A-BY SO!
     THE SONG OF LUDDY-DUD
     THE DUEL
     GOOD-CHILDREN STREET
     THE DELECTABLE BALLAD OF THE WALLER LOT
     THE STORK
     THE BOTTLE TREE
     GOOGLY-GOO
     THE BENCH-LEGGED FYCE
     LITTLE MISS BRAG
     THE HUMMING TOP
     LADY BUTTON-EYES
     THE RIDE TO BUMPVILLE
     THE BROOK
     PICNIC-TIME
     SHUFFLE-SHOON AND AMBER-LOCKS
     THE SHUT-EYE TRAIN
     LITTLE-OH-DEAR
     THE FLY-AWAY HORSE
     SWING HIGH AND SWING LOW
     WHEN I WAS A BOY
     AT PLAY
     A VALENTINE
     LITTLE ALL-ALONEY
     SEEIN' THINGS
     THE CUNNIN' LITTLE THING
     THE DOLL'S WOOING
     INSCRIPTION FOR MY LITTLE SON'S SILVER PLATE
     FISHERMAN JIM'S KIDS
     "FIDDLE-DEE-DEE"
     OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY

THE ROCK-A-BY LADY

      The Rock-a-By Lady from Hushaby street
      Comes stealing; comes creeping;
      The poppies they hang from her head to her feet,
      And each hath a dream that is tiny and fleet--
      She bringeth her poppies to you, my sweet,
      When she findeth you sleeping!

      There is one little dream of a beautiful drum--
      "Rub-a-dub!" it goeth;
      There is one little dream of a big sugar-plum,
      And lo! thick and fast the other dreams come
      Of popguns that bang, and tin tops that hum,
      And a trumpet that bloweth!

      And dollies peep out of those wee little dreams
      With laughter and singing;
      And boats go a-floating on silvery streams,
      And the stars peek-a-boo with their own misty gleams,
      And up, up, and up, where the Mother Moon beams,
      The fairies go winging!

      Would you dream all these dreams that are tiny and fleet?
      They'll come to you sleeping;
      So shut the two eyes that are weary, my sweet,
      For the Rock-a-By Lady from Hushaby street,
      With poppies that hang from her head to her feet,
      Comes stealing; comes creeping.

"BOOH!"

      On afternoons, when baby boy has had a splendid nap,
      And sits, like any monarch on his throne, in nurse's lap,
      In some such wise my handkerchief I hold before my face,
      And cautiously and quietly I move about the place;
      Then, with a cry, I suddenly expose my face to view,
      And you should hear him laugh and crow when I say "Booh"!

      Sometimes the rascal tries to make believe that he is scared,
      And really, when I first began, he stared, and stared, and stared;
      And then his under lip came out and farther out it came,
      Till mamma and the nurse agreed it was a "cruel shame"--
      But now what does that same wee, toddling, lisping baby do
      But laugh and kick his little heels when I say "Booh!"

      He laughs and kicks his little heels in rapturous glee, and then
      In shrill, despotic treble bids me "do it all aden!"
      And I--of course I do it; for, as his progenitor,
      It is such pretty, pleasant play as this that I am for!
      And it is, oh, such fun I am sure that we shall rue
      The time when we are both too old to play the game "Booh!"

GARDEN AND CRADLE

      When our babe he goeth walking in his garden,
      Around his tinkling feet the sunbeams play;
      The posies they are good to him,
      And bow them as they should to him,
      As fareth he upon his kingly way;
      And birdlings of the wood to him
      Make music, gentle music, all the day,
      When our babe he goeth walking in his garden.

      When our babe he goeth swinging in his cradle,
      Then the night it looketh ever sweetly down;
      The little stars are kind to him,
      The moon she hath a mind to him
      And layeth on his head a golden crown;
      And singeth then the wind to him
      A song, the gentle song of Bethlem-town,
      When our babe he goeth swinging in his cradle.

THE NIGHT WIND

      Have you ever heard the wind go "Yooooo"?
      'T is a pitiful sound to hear!
      It seems to chill you through and through
      With a strange and speechless fear.
      'T is the voice of the night that broods outside
      When folk should be asleep,
      And many and many's the time I've cried
      To the darkness brooding far and wide
      Over the land and the deep:
      "Whom do you want, O lonely night,
      That you wail the long hours through?"
      And the night would say in its ghostly way:
          "Yoooooooo!
           Yoooooooo!
           Yoooooooo!"

      My mother told me long ago
      (When I was a little tad)
      That when the night went wailing so,
      Somebody had been bad;
      And then, when I was snug in bed,
      Whither I had been sent,
      With the blankets pulled up round my head,
      I'd think of what my mother'd said,
      And wonder what boy she meant!
      And "Who's been bad to-day?" I'd ask
      Of the wind that hoarsely blew,
      And the voice would say in its meaningful way:
          "Yoooooooo!
           Yoooooooo!
           Yoooooooo!"

      That this was true I must allow--
      You'll not believe it, though!
      Yes, though I'm quite a model now,
      I was not always so.
      And if you doubt what things I say,
      Suppose you make the test;
      Suppose, when you've been bad some day
      And up to bed are sent away
      From mother and the rest--
      Suppose you ask, "Who has been bad?"
      And then you'll hear what's true;
      For the wind will moan in its ruefulest tone:
          "Yoooooooo!
           Yoooooooo!
           Yoooooooo!"

KISSING TIME

      'T is when the lark goes soaring
      And the bee is at the bud,
      When lightly dancing zephyrs
      Sing over field and flood;
      When all sweet things in nature
      Seem joyfully achime--
      'T is then I wake my darling,
      For it is kissing time!

      Go, pretty lark, a-soaring,
      And suck your sweets, O bee;
      Sing, O ye winds of summer,
      Your songs to mine and me;
      For with your song and rapture
      Cometh the moment when
      It's half-past kissing time
      And time to kiss again!

      So--so the days go fleeting
      Like golden fancies free,
      And every day that cometh
      Is full of sweets for me;
      And sweetest are those moments
      My darling comes to climb
      Into my lap to mind me
      That it is kissing time.

      Sometimes, maybe, he wanders
      A heedless, aimless way--
      Sometimes, maybe, he loiters
      In pretty, prattling play;
      But presently bethinks him
      And hastens to me then,
      For it's half-past kissing time
      And time to kiss again!

JEST 'FORE CHRISTMAS

      Father calls me William, sister calls me Will,
      Mother calls me Willie, but the fellers call me Bill!
      Mighty glad I ain't a girl--ruther be a boy,
      Without them sashes, curls, an' things that's worn by Fauntleroy!
      Love to chawnk green apples an' go swimmin' in the lake--
      Hate to take the castor-ile they give for bellyache!
      'Most all the time, the whole year round, there ain't no flies on me,
      But jest 'fore Christmas I'm as good as I kin be!

      Got a yeller dog named Sport, sick him on the cat;
      First thing she knows she doesn't know where she is at!
      Got a clipper sled, an' when us kids goes out to slide,
      'Long comes the grocery cart, an' we all hook a ride!
      But sometimes when the grocery man is worrited an' cross,
      He reaches at us with his whip, an' larrups up his hoss,
      An' then I laff an' holler, "Oh, ye never teched me!"
      But jest 'fore Christmas I'm as good as I kin be!

      Gran'ma says she hopes that when I git to be a man,
      I'll be a missionarer like her oldest brother, Dan,
      As was et up by the cannibuls that lives in Ceylon's Isle,
      Where every prospeck pleases, an' only man is vile!
      But gran'ma she has never been to see a Wild West show,
      Nor read the Life of Daniel Boone, or else I guess she'd know
      That Buff'lo Bill an' cow-boys is good enough for me!
      Excep' jest 'fore Christmas, when I'm good as I kin be!

      And then old Sport he hangs around, so solemn-like an' still,
      His eyes they seem a-sayin': "What's the matter, little Bill?"
      The old cat sneaks down off her perch an' wonders what's become
      Of them two enemies of hern that used to make things hum!
      But I am so perlite an' 'tend so earnestly to biz,
      That mother says to father: "How improved our Willie is!"
      But father, havin' been a boy hisself, suspicions me
      When, jest 'fore Christmas, I'm as good as I kin be!

      For Christmas, with its lots an' lots of candies, cakes, an' toys,
      Was made, they say, for proper kids an' not for naughty boys;
      So wash yer face an' bresh yer hair, an' mind yer p's and q's,
      An' don't bust out yer pantaloons, and don't wear out yer shoes;
      Say "Yessum" to the ladies, an' "Yessur" to the men,
      An' when they's company, don't pass yer plate for pie again;
      But, thinkin' of the things yer'd like to see upon that tree,
      Jest 'fore Christmas be as good as yer kin be!

BEARD AND BABY

      I say, as one who never feared
      The wrath of a subscriber's bullet,
      I pity him who has a beard
      But has no little girl to pull it!

      When wife and I have finished tea,
      Our baby woos me with her prattle,
      And, perching proudly on my knee,
      She gives my petted whiskers battle.

      With both her hands she tugs away,
      While scolding at me kind o' spiteful;
      You'll not believe me when I say
      I find the torture quite delightful!

      No other would presume, I ween,
      To trifle with this hirsute wonder,
      Else would I rise in vengeful mien
      And rend his vandal frame asunder!

      But when her baby fingers pull
      This glossy, sleek, and silky treasure,
      My cup of happiness is full--
      I fairly glow with pride and pleasure!

      And, sweeter still, through all the day
      I seem to hear her winsome prattle--
      I seem to feel her hands at play,
      As though they gave me sportive battle.

      Yes, heavenly music seems to steal
      Where thought of her forever lingers,
      And round my heart I always feel
      The twining of her dimpled fingers!

THE DINKEY BIRD

      In an ocean, 'way out yonder
      (As all sapient people know),
      Is the land of Wonder-Wander,
      Whither children love to go;
      It's their playing, romping, swinging,
      That give great joy to me
      While the Dinkey-Bird goes singing
      In the amfalula tree!

      There the gum-drops grow like cherries,
      And taffy's thick as peas--
      Caramels you pick like berries
      When, and where, and how you please;
      Big red sugar-plums are clinging
      To the cliffs beside that sea
      Where the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the amfalula tree.

      So when children shout and scamper
      And make merry all the day,
      When there's naught to put a damper
      To the ardor of their play;
      When I hear their laughter ringing,
      Then I'm sure as sure can be
      That the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the amfalula tree.

      For the Dinkey-Bird's bravuras
      And staccatos are so sweet--
      His roulades, appoggiaturas,
      And robustos so complete,
      That the youth of every nation--
      Be they near or far away--
      Have especial delectation
      In that gladsome roundelay.

      Their eyes grow bright and brighter,
      Their lungs begin to crow,
      Their hearts get light and lighter,
      And their cheeks are all aglow;
      For an echo cometh bringing
      The news to all and me,
      That the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the amfalula tree.

      I'm sure you like to go there
      To see your feathered friend--
      And so many goodies grow there
      You would like to comprehend!
      Speed, little dreams, your winging
      To that land across the sea
      Where the Dinkey-Bird is singing
      In the amfalula tree!

THE DRUM

      I'm a beautiful red, red drum,
      And I train with the soldier boys;
      As up the street we come,
      Wonderful is our noise!
      There's Tom, and Jim, and Phil,
      And Dick, and Nat, and Fred,
      While Widow Cutler's Bill
      And I march on ahead,
      With a r-r-rat-tat-tat
      And a tum-titty-um-tum-tum--
      Oh, there's bushels of fun in that
      For boys with a little red drum!

      The Injuns came last night
      While the soldiers were abed,
      And they gobbled a Chinese kite
      And off to the woods they fled!
      The woods are the cherry-trees
      Down in the orchard lot,
      And the soldiers are marching to seize
      The booty the Injuns got.
      With tum-titty-um-tum-tum,
      And r-r-rat-tat-tat,
      When soldiers marching come
      Injuns had better scat!

      Step up there, little Fred,
      And, Charley, have a mind!
      Jim is as far ahead
      As you two are behind!
      Ready with gun and sword
      Your valorous work to do--
      Yonder the Injun horde
      Are lying in wait for you.
      And their hearts go pitapat
      When they hear the soldiers come
      With a r-r-rat-tat-tat
      And a tum-titty-um-tum-tum!

      Course it's all in play!
      The skulking Injun crew
      That hustled the kite away
      Are little white boys, like you!
      But "honest" or "just in fun,"
      It is all the same to me;
      And, when the battle is won,
      Home once again march we
      With a r-r-rat-tat-tat
      And tum-titty-um-tum-tum;
      And there's glory enough in that
      For the boys with their little red drum!

THE DEAD BABE

      Last night, as my dear babe lay dead,
      In agony I knelt and said:
      "O God! what have I done,
      Or in what wise offended Thee,
      That Thou should'st take away from me
      My little son?

      "Upon the thousand useless lives,
      Upon the guilt that vaunting thrives,
      Thy wrath were better spent!
      Why should'st Thou take my little son--
      Why should'st Thou vent Thy wrath upon
      This innocent?"

      Last night, as my dear babe lay dead,
      Before mine eyes the vision spread
      Of things that might have been:
      Licentious riot, cruel strife,
      Forgotten prayers, a wasted life
      Dark red with sin!

      Then, with sweet music in the air,
      I saw another vision there:
      A Shepherd in whose keep
      A little lamb--my little child!
      Of worldly wisdom undefiled,
      Lay fast asleep!

      Last night, as my dear babe lay dead,
      In those two messages I read
      A wisdom manifest;
      And though my arms be childless now,
      I am content--to Him I bow
      Who knoweth best.

THE HAPPY HOUSEHOLD

      It's when the birds go piping and the daylight slowly breaks,
      That, clamoring for his dinner, our precious baby wakes;
      Then it's sleep no more for baby, and it's sleep no more for me,
      For, when he wants his dinner, why it's dinner it must be!
      And of that lacteal fluid he partakes with great ado,
        While gran'ma laughs,
        And gran'pa laughs,
        And wife, she laughs,
        And I--well, I laugh, too!

      You'd think, to see us carrying on about that little tad,
      That, like as not, that baby was the first we'd ever had;
      But, sakes alive! he isn't, yet we people make a fuss
      As if the only baby in the world had come to us!
      And, morning, noon, and night-time, whatever he may do,
        Gran'ma, she laughs,
        Gran'pa, he laughs,
        Wife, she laughs,
        And I, of course, laugh, too!

      But once--a likely spell ago--when that poor little chick
      From teething or from some such ill of infancy fell sick,
      You wouldn't know us people as the same that went about
      A-feelin' good all over, just to hear him crow and shout;
      And, though the doctor poohed our fears and said he'd pull him through,
        Old gran'ma cried,
        And gran'pa cried,
        And wife, she cried,
        And I--yes, I cried, too!

      It makes us all feel good to have a baby on the place,
      With his everlastin' crowing and his dimpling, dumpling face;
      The patter of his pinky feet makes music everywhere,
      And when he shakes those fists of his, good-by to every care!
      No matter what our trouble is, when he begins to coo,
        Old gran'ma laughs,
        And gran'pa laughs,
        Wife, she laughs,
        And I--you bet, I laugh, too!

SO, SO, ROCK-A-BY SO!

      So, so, rock-a-by so!
      Off to the garden where dreamikins grow;
      And here is a kiss on your winkyblink eyes,
      And here is a kiss on your dimpledown cheek
      And here is a kiss for the treasure that lies
      In the beautiful garden way up in the skies
      Which you seek.
      Now mind these three kisses wherever you go--
      So, so, rock-a-by so!

      There's one little fumfay who lives there, I know,
      For he dances all night where the dreamikins grow;
      I send him this kiss on your droopydrop eyes,
      I send him this kiss on your rosyred cheek.
      And here is a kiss for the dream that shall rise
      When the fumfay shall dance in those far-away skies
      Which you seek.
      Be sure that you pay those three kisses you owe--
      So, so, rock-a-by so!

      And, by-low, as you rock-a-by go,
      Don't forget mother who loveth you so!
      And here is her kiss on your weepydeep eyes,
      And here is her kiss on your peachypink cheek,
      And here is her kiss for the dreamland that lies
      Like a babe on the breast of those far-away skies
      Which you seek--
      The blinkywink garden where dreamikins grow--
      So, so, rock-a-by so!

THE SONG OF LUDDY-DUD

      A sunbeam comes a-creeping
      Into my dear one's nest,
      And sings to our babe a-sleeping
      The song that I love the best:
      "'T is little Luddy-Dud in the morning--
      'T is little Luddy-Dud at night;
      And all day long
      'T is the same sweet song
      Of that waddling, toddling, coddling little mite,
      Luddy-Dud."

      The bird to the tossing clover,
      The bee to the swaying bud,
      Keep singing that sweet song over
      Of wee little Luddy-Dud.
      "'T is little Luddy-Dud in the morning--
      'T is little Luddy-Dud at night;
      And all day long
      'T is the same dear song
      Of that growing, crowing, knowing little sprite,
      Luddy-Dud."

      Luddy-Dud's cradle is swinging
      Where softly the night winds blow,
      And Luddy-Dud's mother is singing
      A song that is sweet and low:
      "'T is little Luddy-Dud in the morning--
      'T is little Luddy-Dud at night;
      And all day long
      'T is the same sweet song
      Of my nearest and my dearest heart's delight,
      Luddy-Dud!"

THE DUEL

      The gingham dog and the calico cat
      Side by side on the table sat;
      'T was half-past twelve, and (what do you think!)
      Nor one nor t' other had slept a wink!
      The old Dutch clock and the Chinese plate
      Appeared to know as sure as fate
      There was going to be a terrible spat.
      (I wasn't there; I simply state
      What was told to me by the Chinese plate!)

      The gingham dog went "bow-wow-wow!"
      And the calico cat replied "mee-ow!"
      The air was littered, an hour or so,
      With bits of gingham and calico,
      While the old Dutch clock in the chimney place
      Up with its hands before its face,
      For it always dreaded a family row!
      (Now mind: I'm only telling you
      What the old Dutch clock declares is true!)

      The Chinese plate looked very blue,
      And wailed, "Oh, dear! what shall we do!"
      But the gingham dog and the calico cat
      Wallowed this way and tumbled that,
      Employing every tooth and claw
      In the awfullest way you ever saw--
      And, oh! how the gingham and calico flew!
      (Don't fancy I exaggerate--
      I got my news from the Chinese plate!)

      Next morning, where the two had sat
      They found no trace of dog or cat;
      And some folks think unto this day
      That burglars stole that pair away!
      But the truth about the cat and pup
      Is this: they ate each other up!
      Now what do you really think of that!
      (The old Dutch clock it told me so,
      And that is how I came to know.)

GOOD-CHILDREN STREET

      There's a dear little home in Good-Children street--
      My heart turneth fondly to-day
      Where tinkle of tongues and patter of feet
      Make sweetest of music at play;
      Where the sunshine of love illumines each face
      And warms every heart in that old-fashioned place.

      For dear little children go romping about
      With dollies and tin tops and drums,
      And, my! how they frolic and scamper and shout
      Till bedtime too speedily comes!
      Oh, days they are golden and days they are fleet
      With little folk living in Good-Children street.

      See, here comes an army with guns painted red,
      And swords, caps, and plumes of all sorts;
      The captain rides gaily and proudly ahead
      On a stick-horse that prances and snorts!
      Oh, legions of soldiers you're certain to meet--
      Nice make-believe soldiers--in Good-Children street.

      And yonder Odette wheels her dolly about--
      Poor dolly! I'm sure she is ill,
      For one of her blue china eyes has dropped out
      And her voice is asthmatic'ly shrill.
      Then, too, I observe she is minus her feet,
      Which causes much sorrow in Good-Children street.

      'T is so the dear children go romping about
      With dollies and banners and drums,
      And I venture to say they are sadly put out
      When an end to their jubilee comes:
      Oh, days they are golden and days they are fleet
      With little folk living in Good-Children street!

      But when falleth night over river and town,
      Those little folk vanish from sight,
      And an angel all white from the sky cometh down
      And guardeth the babes through the night,
      And singeth her lullabies tender and sweet
      To the dear little people in Good-Children Street.

      Though elsewhere the world be o'erburdened with care,
      Though poverty fall to my lot,
      Though toil and vexation be always my share,
      What care I--they trouble me not!
      This thought maketh life ever joyous and Sweet:
      There's a dear little home in Good-Children street.

THE DELECTABLE BALLAD OF THE WALLER LOT

      Up yonder in Buena Park
      There is a famous spot,
      In legend and in history
      Yclept the Waller Lot.

      There children play in daytime
      And lovers stroll by dark,
      For 't is the goodliest trysting-place
      In all Buena Park.

      Once on a time that beauteous maid,
      Sweet little Sissy Knott,
      Took out her pretty doll to walk
      Within the Waller Lot.

      While thus she fared, from Ravenswood
      Came Injuns o'er the plain,
      And seized upon that beauteous maid
      And rent her doll in twain.

      Oh, 't was a piteous thing to hear
      Her lamentations wild;
      She tore her golden curls and cried:
      "My child! My child! My child!"

      Alas, what cared those Injun chiefs
      How bitterly wailed she?
      They never had been mothers,
      And they could not hope to be!

      "Have done with tears," they rudely quoth,
      And then they bound her hands;
      For they proposed to take her off
      To distant border lands.

      But, joy! from Mr. Eddy's barn
      Doth Willie Clow behold
      The sight that makes his hair rise up
      And all his blood run cold.

      He put his fingers in his mouth
      And whistled long and clear,
      And presently a goodly horde
      Of cow-boys did appear.

      Cried Willie Clow: "My comrades bold,
      Haste to the Waller Lot,
      And rescue from that Injun band
      Our charming Sissy Knott!"

      "Spare neither Injun buck nor squaw,
      But smite them hide and hair!
      Spare neither sex nor age nor size,
      And no condition spare!"

      Then sped that cow-boy band away,
      Full of revengeful wrath,
      And Kendall Evans rode ahead
      Upon a hickory lath.

      And next came gallant Dady Field
      And Willie's brother Kent,
      The Eddy boys and Robbie James,
      On murderous purpose bent.

      For they were much beholden to
      That maid--in sooth, the lot
      Were very, very much in love
      With charming Sissy Knott.

      What wonder? She was beauty's queen,
      And good beyond compare;
      Moreover, it was known she was
      Her wealthy father's heir!

      Now when the Injuns saw that band
      They trembled with affright,
      And yet they thought the cheapest thing
      To do was stay and fight.

      So sturdily they stood their ground,
      Nor would their prisoner yield,
      Despite the wrath of Willie Clow
      And gallant Dady Field.

      Oh, never fiercer battle raged
      Upon the Waller Lot,
      And never blood more freely flowed
      Than flowed for Sissy Knott!

      An Injun chief of monstrous size
      Got Kendall Evans down,
      And Robbie James was soon o'erthrown
      By one of great renown.

      And Dady Field was sorely done,
      And Willie Clow was hurt,
      And all that gallant cow-boy band
      Lay wallowing in the dirt.

      But still they strove with might and main
      Till all the Waller Lot
      Was strewn with hair and gouts of gore--
      All, all for Sissy Knott!

      Then cried the maiden in despair:
      "Alas, I sadly fear
      The battle and my hopes are lost,
      Unless some help appear!"

      Lo, as she spoke, she saw afar
      The rescuer looming up--
      The pride of all Buena Park,
      Clow's famous yellow pup!

      "Now, sick'em, Don," the maiden cried,
      "Now, sick'em, Don!" cried she;
      Obedient Don at once complied--
      As ordered, so did he.

      He sicked'em all so passing well
      That, overcome by fright,
      The Indian horde gave up the fray
      And safety sought in flight.

      They ran and ran and ran and ran
      O'er valley, plain, and hill;
      And if they are not walking now,
      Why, then, they're running still.

      The cow-boys rose up from the dust
      With faces black and blue;
      "Remember, beauteous maid," said they,
      "We've bled and died for you!"

      "And though we suffer grievously,
      We gladly hail the lot
      That brings us toils and pains and wounds
      For charming Sissy Knott!"

      But Sissy Knott still wailed and wept,
      And still her fate reviled;
      For who could patch her dolly up--
      Who, who could mend her child?

      Then out her doting mother came,
      And soothed her daughter then;
      "Grieve not, my darling, I will sew
      Your dolly up again!"

      Joy soon succeeded unto grief,
      And tears were soon dried up,
      And dignities were heaped upon
      Clow's noble yellow pup.

      Him all that goodly company
      Did as deliverer hail--
      They tied a ribbon round his neck,
      Another round his tail.

      And every anniversary day
      Upon the Waller Lot
      They celebrate the victory won
      For charming Sissy Knott.

      And I, the poet of these folk,
      Am ordered to compile
      This truly famous history
      In good old ballad style.

      Which having done as to have earned
      The sweet rewards of fame,
      In what same style I did begin
      I now shall end the same.

      So let us sing: Long live the King,
      Long live the Queen and Jack,
      Long live the ten-spot and the ace,
      And also all the pack.

THE STORK

      Last night the Stork came stalking,
      And, Stork, beneath your wing
      Lay, lapped in dreamless slumber,
      The tiniest little thing!
      From Babyland, out yonder
      Beside a silver sea,
      You brought a priceless treasure
      As gift to mine and me!

      Last night my dear one listened--
      And, wife, you knew the cry--
      The dear old Stork has sought our home
      A many times gone by!
      And in your gentle bosom
      I found the pretty thing
      That from the realm out yonder
      Our friend the Stork did bring.

      Last night a babe awakened,
      And, babe, how strange and new
      Must seem the home and people
      The Stork has brought you to;
      And yet methinks you like them--
      You neither stare nor weep,
      But closer to my dear one
      You cuddle, and you sleep!

      Last night my heart grew fonder--
      O happy heart of mine,
      Sing of the inspirations
      That round my pathway shine!
      And sing your sweetest love-song
      To this dear nestling wee
      The Stork from 'Way-Out-Yonder
      Hath brought to mine and me!

THE BOTTLE TREE

      A bottle tree bloometh in Winkyway land--
      Heigh-ho for a bottle, I say!
      A snug little berth in that ship I demand
      That rocketh the Bottle-Tree babies away
      Where the Bottle Tree bloometh by night and by day
      And reacheth its fruit to each wee, dimpled hand;
      You take of that fruit as much as you list,
      For colic's a nuisance that doesn't exist!
      So cuddle me and cuddle me fast,
      And cuddle me snug in my cradle away,
      For I hunger and thirst for that precious repast--
      Heigh-ho for a bottle, I say!

      The Bottle Tree bloometh by night and by day!
      Heigh-ho for Winkyway land!
      And Bottle-Tree fruit (as I've heard people say)
      Makes bellies of Bottle-Tree babies expand--
      And that is a trick I would fain understand!
      Heigh-ho for a bottle to-day!
      And heigh-ho for a bottle to-night--
      A bottle of milk that is creamy and white!
      So cuddle me close, and cuddle me fast,
      And cuddle me snug in my cradle away,
      For I hunger and thirst for that precious repast--
      Heigh-ho for a bottle, I say!

GOOGLY-GOO

      Of mornings, bright and early,
      When the lark is on the wing
      And the robin in the maple
      Hops from her nest to sing,
      From yonder cheery chamber
      Cometh a mellow coo--
      'T is the sweet, persuasive treble
      Of my little Googly-Goo!

      The sunbeams hear his music,
      And they seek his little bed,
      And they dance their prettiest dances
      Round his golden curly head:
      Schottisches, galops, minuets,
      Gavottes and waltzes, too,
      Dance they unto the music
      Of my googling Googly-Goo.

      My heart--my heart it leapeth
      To hear that treble tone;
      What music like thy music,
      My darling and mine own!
      And patiently--yes, cheerfully
      I toil the long day through--
      My labor seemeth lightened
      By the song of Googly-Goo!

      I may not see his antics,
      Nor kiss his dimpled cheek:
      I may not smooth the tresses
      The sunbeams love to seek;
      It mattereth not--the echo
      Of his sweet, persuasive coo
      Recurreth to remind me
      Of my little Googly-Goo.

      And when I come at evening,
      I stand without the door
      And patiently I listen
      For that dear sound once more;
      And oftentimes I wonder,
      "Oh, God! what should I do
      If any ill should happen
      To my little Googly-Goo!"

      Then in affright I call him--
      I hear his gleeful shouts!
      Begone, ye dread forebodings--
      Begone, ye killing doubts!
      For, with my arms about him,
      My heart warms through and through
      With the oogling and the googling
      Of my little Googly-Goo!

THE BENCH-LEGGED FYCE

      Speakin' of dorgs, my bench-legged fyce
      Hed most o' the virtues, an' nary a vice.
      Some folks called him Sooner, a name that arose
      From his predisposition to chronic repose;
      But, rouse his ambition, he couldn't be beat--
      Yer bet yer he got thar on all his four feet!

      Mos' dorgs hez some forte--like huntin' an' such,
      But the sports o' the field didn't bother him much;
      Wuz just a plain dorg, an' contented to be
      On peaceable terms with the neighbors an' me;
      Used to fiddle an' squirm, and grunt "Oh, how nice!"
      When I tickled the back of that bench-legged fyce!

      He wuz long in the bar'l, like a fyce oughter be;
      His color wuz yaller as ever you see;
      His tail, curlin' upward, wuz long, loose, an' slim--
      When he didn't wag it, why, the tail it wagged him!
      His legs wuz so crooked, my bench-legged pup
      Wuz as tall settin' down as he wuz standin' up!

      He'd lie by the stove of a night an' regret
      The various vittles an' things he had et;
      When a stranger, most likely a tramp, come along,
      He'd lift up his voice in significant song--
      You wondered, by gum! how there ever wuz space
      In that bosom o' his'n to hold so much bass!

      Of daytimes he'd sneak to the road an' lie down,
      An' tackle the country dorgs comin' to town;
      By common consent he wuz boss in St. Joe,
      For what he took hold of he never let go!
      An' a dude that come courtin' our girl left a slice
      Of his white flannel suit with our bench-legged fyce!

      He wuz good to us kids--when we pulled at his fur
      Or twisted his tail he would never demur;
      He seemed to enjoy all our play an' our chaff,
      For his tongue 'u'd hang out an' he'd laff an' he'd laff;
      An' once, when the Hobart boy fell through the ice,
      He wuz drug clean ashore by that bench-legged fyce!

      We all hev our choice, an' you, like the rest,
      Allow that the dorg which you've got is the best;
      I wouldn't give much for the boy 'at grows up
      With no friendship subsistin' 'tween him an' a pup!
      When a fellow gits old--I tell you it's nice
      To think of his youth and his bench-legged fyce!

      To think of the springtime 'way back in St. Joe--
      Of the peach-trees abloom an' the daisies ablow;
      To think of the play in the medder an' grove,
      When little legs wrassled an' little han's strove;
      To think of the loyalty, valor, an' truth
      Of the friendships that hallow the season of youth!

LITTLE MISS BRAG

      Little Miss Brag has much to say
      To the rich little lady from over the way
      And the rich little lady puts out a lip
      As she looks at her own white, dainty slip,
      And wishes that she could wear a gown
      As pretty as gingham of faded brown!
      For little Miss Brag she lays much stress
      On the privileges of a gingham dress--
          "Aha,
           Oho!"

      The rich little lady from over the way
      Has beautiful dolls in vast array;
      Yet she envies the raggedy home-made doll
      She hears our little Miss Brag extol.
      For the raggedy doll can fear no hurt
      From wet, or heat, or tumble, or dirt!
      Her nose is inked, and her mouth is, too,
      And one eye's black and the other's blue--
          "Aha,
           Oho!"

      The rich little lady goes out to ride
      With footmen standing up outside,
      Yet wishes that, sometimes, after dark
      Her father would trundle her in the park;--
      That, sometimes, her mother would sing the things
      Little Miss Brag says her mother sings
      When through the attic window streams
      The moonlight full of golden dreams--
          "Aha,
           Oho!"

      Yes, little Miss Brag has much to say
      To the rich little lady from over the way;
      And yet who knows but from her heart
      Often the bitter sighs upstart--
      Uprise to lose their burn and sting
      In the grace of the tongue that loves to sing
      Praise of the treasures all its own!
      So I've come to love that treble tone--
          "Aha,
           Oho!"

THE HUMMING TOP

      The top it hummeth a sweet, sweet song
      To my dear little boy at play--
      Merrily singeth all day long,
      As it spinneth and spinneth away.
      And my dear little boy
      He laugheth with joy
      When he heareth the monotone
      Of that busy thing
      That loveth to sing
      The song that is all its own.

      Hold fast the string and wind it tight,
      That the song be loud and clear;
      Now hurl the top with all your might
      Upon the banquette here;
      And straight from the string
      The joyous thing
      Boundeth and spinneth along,
      And it whirrs and it chirrs
      And it birrs and it purrs
      Ever its pretty song.

      Will ever my dear little boy grow old,
      As some have grown before?
      Will ever his heart feel faint and cold,
      When he heareth the songs of yore?
      Will ever this toy
      Of my dear little boy,
      When the years have worn away,
      Sing sad and low
      Of the long ago,
      As it singeth to me to-day?

LADY BUTTON-EYES

      When the busy day is done,
      And my weary little one
      Rocketh gently to and fro;
      When the night winds softly blow,
      And the crickets in the glen
      Chirp and chirp and chirp again;
      When upon the haunted green
      Fairies dance around their queen--
      Then from yonder misty skies
      Cometh Lady Button-Eyes.

      Through the murk and mist and gloam
      To our quiet, cozy home,
      Where to singing, sweet and low,
      Rocks a cradle to and fro;
      Where the clock's dull monotone
      Telleth of the day that's done;
      Where the moonbeams hover o'er
      Playthings sleeping on the floor--
      Where my weary wee one lies
      Cometh Lady Button-Eyes.

      Cometh like a fleeting ghost
      From some distant eerie coast;
      Never footfall can you hear
      As that spirit fareth near--
      Never whisper, never word
      From that shadow-queen is heard.
      In ethereal raiment dight,
      From the realm of fay and sprite
      In the depth of yonder skies
      Cometh Lady Button-Eyes.

      Layeth she her hands upon
      My dear weary little one,
      And those white hands overspread
      Like a veil the curly head,
      Seem to fondle and caress
      Every little silken tress;
      Then she smooths the eyelids down
      Over those two eyes of brown--
      In such soothing, tender wise
      Cometh Lady Button-Eyes.

      Dearest, feel upon your brow
      That caressing magic now;
      For the crickets in the glen
      Chirp and chirp and chirp again,
      While upon the haunted green
      Fairies dance around their queen,
      And the moonbeams hover o'er
      Playthings sleeping on the floor--
      Hush, my sweet! from yonder skies
      Cometh Lady Button-Eyes!

THE RIDE TO BUMPVILLE

      Play that my knee was a calico mare
      Saddled and bridled for Bumpville;
      Leap to the back of this steed, if you dare,
      And gallop away to Bumpville!
      I hope you'll be sure to sit fast in your seat,
      For this calico mare is prodigiously fleet,
      And many adventures you're likely to meet
      As you journey along to Bumpville.

      This calico mare both gallops and trots
      While whisking you off to Bumpville;
      She paces, she shies, and she stumbles, in spots,
      In the tortuous road to Bumpville;
      And sometimes this strangely mercurial steed
      Will suddenly stop and refuse to proceed,
      Which, all will admit, is vexatious indeed,
      When one is en route to Bumpville!

      She's scared of the cars when the engine goes "Toot!"
      Down by the crossing at Bumpville;
      You'd better look out for that treacherous brute
      Bearing you off to Bumpville!
      With a snort she rears up on her hindermost heels,
      And executes jigs and Virginia reels--
      Words fail to explain how embarrassed one feels
      Dancing so wildly to Bumpville!

      It's bumpytybump and it's jiggytyjog,
      Journeying on to Bumpville
      It's over the hilltop and down through the bog
      You ride on your way to Bumpville;
      It's rattletybang over boulder and stump,
      There are rivers to ford, there are fences to jump,
      And the corduroy road it goes bumpytybump,
      Mile after mile to bumpville!

      Perhaps you'll observe it's no easy thing
      Making the journey to Bumpville,
      So I think, on the whole, it were prudent to bring
      An end to this ride to Bumpville;
      For, though she has uttered no protest or plaint,
      The calico mare must be blowing and faint--
      What's more to the point, I'm blowed if I ain't!
      So play we have got to Bumpville!

THE BROOK

      I looked in the brook and saw a face--
      Heigh-ho, but a child was I!
      There were rushes and willows in that place,
      And they clutched at the brook as the brook ran by;
      And the brook it ran its own sweet way,
      As a child doth run in heedless play,
      And as it ran I heard it say:
      "Hasten with me
      To the roistering sea
      That is wroth with the flame of the morning sky!"

      I look in the brook and see a face--
      Heigh-ho, but the years go by!
      The rushes are dead in the old-time place,
      And the willows I knew when a child was I.
      And the brook it seemeth to me to say,
      As ever it stealeth on its way--
      Solemnly now, and not in play:
      "Oh, come with me
      To the slumbrous sea
      That is gray with the peace of the evening sky!"

      Heigh-ho, but the years go by--
      I would to God that a child were I!

PICNIC-TIME

      It's June ag'in, an' in my soul I feel the fillin' joy
      That's sure to come this time o' year to every little boy;
      For, every June, the Sunday-schools at picnics may be seen,
      Where "fields beyont the swellin' floods stand dressed in livin' green";
      Where little girls are skeered to death with spiders, bugs, and ants,
      An' little boys get grass-stains on their go-to meetin' pants.
      It's June ag'in, an' with it all what happiness is mine--
      There's goin' to be a picnic, an' I'm goin' to jine!

      One year I jined the Baptists, an' goodness! how it rained!
      (But grampa says that that's the way "baptizo" is explained.)
      And once I jined the 'Piscopils an' had a heap o' fun--
      But the boss of all the picnics was the Presbyteriun!
      They had so many puddin's, sallids, sandwidges, an' pies,
      That a feller wisht his stummick was as hungry as his eyes!
      Oh, yes, the eatin' Presbyteriuns give yer is so fine
      That when they have a picnic, you bet I'm goin' to jine!

      But at this time the Methodists have special claims on me,
      For they're goin' to give a picnic on the 21st, D. V.;
      Why should a liberal universalist like me object
      To share the joys of fellowship with every friendly sect?
      However het'rodox their articles of faith elsewise may be,
      Their doctrine of fried chick'n is a savin' grace to me!
      So on the 21st of June, the weather bein' fine,
      They're goin' to give a picnic, and I'm goin' to jine!

SHUFFLE-SHOON AND AMBER-LOCKS

      Shuffle-shoon and Amber-Locks
      Sit together, building blocks;
      Shuffle-Shoon is old and gray,
      Amber-Locks a little child,
      But together at their play
      Age and Youth are reconciled,
      And with sympathetic glee
      Build their castles fair to see.

      "When I grow to be a man"
      (So the wee one's prattle ran),
      "I shall build a castle so--
      With a gateway broad and grand;
      Here a pretty vine shall grow,
      There a soldier guard shall stand;
      And the tower shall be so high,
      Folks will wonder, by and by!"

      Shuffle-Shoon quoth: "Yes, I know;
      Thus I builded long ago!
      Here a gate and there a wall,
      Here a window, there a door;
      Here a steeple wondrous tall
      Riseth ever more and more!
      But the years have leveled low
      What I builded long ago!"

      So they gossip at their play,
      Heedless of the fleeting day;
      One speaks of the Long Ago
      Where his dead hopes buried lie;
      One with chubby cheeks aglow
      Prattleth of the By and By;
      Side by side, they build their blocks--
      Shuffle-Shoon and Amber-Locks.

THE SHUT-EYE TRAIN

      Come, my little one, with me!
      There are wondrous sights to see
      As the evening shadows fall;
      In your pretty cap and gown,
      Don't detain
      The Shut-Eye train--
      "Ting-a-ling!" the bell it goeth,
      "Toot-toot!" the whistle bloweth,
      And we hear the warning call:
      "All aboard for Shut-Eye Town!"

      Over hill and over plain
      Soon will speed the Shut-Eye train!
      Through the blue where bloom the stars
      And the Mother Moon looks down
      We'll away
      To land of Fay--
      Oh, the sights that we shall see there!
      Come, my little one, with me there--
      'T is a goodly train of cars--
      All aboard for Shut-Eye Town!

      Swifter than a wild bird's flight,
      Through the realms of fleecy light
      We shall speed and speed away!
      Let the Night in envy frown--
      What care we
      How wroth she be!
      To the Balow-land above us,
      To the Balow-folk who love us,
      Let us hasten while we may--
      All aboard for Shut-Eye Town!

      Shut-Eye Town is passing fair--
      Golden dreams await us there;
      We shall dream those dreams, my dear,
      Till the Mother Moon goes down--
      See unfold
      Delights untold!
      And in those mysterious places
      We shall see beloved faces
      And beloved voices hear
      In the grace of Shut-Eye Town.

      Heavy are your eyes, my sweet,
      Weary are your little feet--
      Nestle closer up to me
      In your pretty cap and gown;
      Don't detain
      The Shut-Eye train!
      "Ting-a-ling!" the bell it goeth,
      "Toot-toot!" the whistle bloweth
      Oh, the sights that we shall see!
      All aboard for Shut-Eye Town!

LITTLE-OH DEAR

      See, what a wonderful garden is here,
      Planted and trimmed for my Little-Oh-Dear!
      Posies so gaudy and grass of such brown--
      Search ye the country and hunt ye the town
      And never ye'll meet with a garden so queer
      As this one I've made for my Little-Oh-Dear!

      Marigolds white and buttercups blue,
      Lilies all dabbled with honey and dew,
      The cactus that trails over trellis and wall,
      Roses and pansies and violets--all
      Make proper obeisance and reverent cheer
      When into her garden steps Little-Oh-Dear.

      And up at the top of that lavender-tree
      A silver-bird singeth as only can she;
      For, ever and only, she singeth the song
      "I love you--I love you!" the happy day long;--
      Then the echo--the echo that smiteth me here!
      "I love you, I love you," my Little-Oh-Dear!

      The garden may wither, the silver-bird fly--
      But what careth my little precious, or I?
      From her pathway of flowers that in spring time upstart
      She walketh the tenderer way in my heart
      And, oh, it is always the summer-time here
      With that song of "I love you," my Little-Oh-Dear!

THE FLY-AWAY HORSE

      Oh, a wonderful horse is the Fly-Away Horse--
      Perhaps you have seen him before;
      Perhaps, while you slept, his shadow has swept
      Through the moonlight that floats on the floor.
      For it's only at night, when the stars twinkle bright,
      That the Fly-Away Horse, with a neigh
      And a pull at his rein and a toss of his mane,
      Is up on his heels and away!
      The Moon in the sky,
      As he gallopeth by,
      Cries: "Oh! what a marvelous sight!"
      And the Stars in dismay
      Hide their faces away
      In the lap of old Grandmother Night.

      It is yonder, out yonder, the Fly-Away Horse
      Speedeth ever and ever away--
      Over meadows and lanes, over mountains and plains,
      Over streamlets that sing at their play;
      And over the sea like a ghost sweepeth he,
      While the ships they go sailing below,
      And he speedeth so fast that the men at the mast
      Adjudge him some portent of woe.
      "What ho there!" they cry,
      As he flourishes by
      With a whisk of his beautiful tail;
      And the fish in the sea
      Are as scared as can be,
      From the nautilus up to the whale!

      And the Fly-Away Horse seeks those faraway lands
      You little folk dream of at night--
      Where candy-trees grow, and honey-brooks flow,
      And corn-fields with popcorn are white;
      And the beasts in the wood are ever so good
      To children who visit them there--
      What glory astride of a lion to ride,
      Or to wrestle around with a bear!
      The monkeys, they say:
      "Come on, let us play,"
      And they frisk in the cocoanut-trees:
      While the parrots, that cling
      To the peanut-vines, sing
      Or converse with comparative ease!

      Off! scamper to bed--you shall ride him tonight!
      For, as soon as you've fallen asleep,
      With a jubilant neigh he shall bear you away
      Over forest and hillside and deep!
      But tell us, my dear, all you see and you hear
      In those beautiful lands over there,
      Where the Fly-Away Horse wings his faraway course
      With the wee one consigned to his care.
      Then grandma will cry
      In amazement: "Oh, my!"
      And she'll think it could never be so;
      And only we two
      Shall know it is true--
      You and I, little precious! shall know!

SWING HIGH AND SWING LOW

      Swing high and swing low
      While the breezes they blow--
      It's off for a sailor thy father would go;
      And it's here in the harbor, in sight of the sea,
      He hath left his wee babe with my song and with me:
      "Swing high and swing low
      While the breezes they blow!"

      Swing high and swing low
      While the breezes they blow--
      It's oh for the waiting as weary days go!
      And it's oh for the heartache that smiteth me when
      I sing my song over and over again:
      "Swing high and swing low
      While the breezes they blow!"

      "Swing high and swing low "--
      The sea singeth so,
      And it waileth anon in its ebb and its flow;
      And a sleeper sleeps on to that song of the sea
      Nor recketh he ever of mine or of me!
      "Swing high and swing low
      While the breezes they blow--
      'T was off for a sailor thy father would go!"

WHEN I WAS A BOY

      Up in the attic where I slept
      When I was a boy, a little boy,
      In through the lattice the moonlight crept,
      Bringing a tide of dreams that swept
      Over the low, red trundle-bed,
      Bathing the tangled curly head,
      While moonbeams played at hide-and-seek
      With the dimples on the sun-browned cheek--
      When I was a boy, a little boy!

      And, oh! the dreams--the dreams I dreamed!
      When I was a boy, a little boy!
      For the grace that through the lattice streamed
      Over my folded eyelids seemed
      To have the gift of prophecy,
      And to bring me glimpses of times to be
      When manhood's clarion seemed to call--
      Ah! that was the sweetest dream of all,
      When I was a boy, a little boy!

      I'd like to sleep where I used to sleep
      When I was a boy, a little boy!
      For in at the lattice the moon would peep,
      Bringing her tide of dreams to sweep
      The crosses and griefs of the years away
      From the heart that is weary and faint to-day;
      And those dreams should give me back again
      A peace I have never known since then--
      When I was a boy, a little boy!

AT PLAY

      Play that you are mother dear,
      And play that papa is your beau;
      Play that we sit in the corner here,
      Just as we used to, long ago.
      Playing so, we lovers two
      Are just as happy as we can be,
      And I'll say "I love you" to you,
      And you say "I love you" to me!
      "I love you" we both shall say,
      All in earnest and all in play.

      Or, play that you are that other one
      That some time came, and went away;
      And play that the light of years agone
      Stole into my heart again to-day!
      Playing that you are the one I knew
      In the days that never again may be,
      I'll say "I love you" to you,"
      And you say "I love you" to me!
      "I love you!" my heart shall say
      To the ghost of the past come back to-day!

      Or, play that you sought this nestling-place
      For your own sweet self, with that dual guise
      Of your pretty mother in your face
      And the look of that other in your eyes!
      So the dear old loves shall live anew
      As I hold my darling on my knee,
      And I'll say "I love you" to you,
      And you say "I love you" to me!
      Oh, many a strange, true thing we say
      And do when we pretend to play!

A VALENTINE

      Go, Cupid, and my sweetheart tell
      I love her well.
      Yes, though she tramples on my heart
      And rends that bleeding thing apart;
      And though she rolls a scornful eye
      On doting me when I go by;
      And though she scouts at everything
      As tribute unto her I bring--
      Apple, banana, caramel--
      Haste, Cupid, to my love and tell,
      In spite of all, I love her well!

      And further say I have a sled
      Cushioned in blue and painted red!
      The groceryman has promised I
      Can "hitch" whenever he goes by--
      Go, tell her that, and, furthermore,
      Apprise my sweetheart that a score
      Of other little girls implore
      The boon of riding on that sled
      Painted and hitched, as aforesaid;--
      And tell her, Cupid, only she
      Shall ride upon that sled with me!
      Tell her this all, and further tell
      I love her well.

LITTLE ALL-ALONEY

      Little All-Aloney's feet
      Pitter-patter in the hall,
      And his mother runs to meet
      And to kiss her toddling sweet,
      Ere perchance he fall.
      He is, oh, so weak and small!
      Yet what danger shall he fear
      When his mother hovereth near,
      And he hears her cheering call:
      "All-Aloney"?

      Little All-Aloney's face
      It is all aglow with glee,
      As around that romping-place
      At a terrifying pace
      Lungeth, plungeth he!
      And that hero seems to be
      All unconscious of our cheers--
      Only one dear voice he hears
      Calling reassuringly:
      "All-Aloney!"

      Though his legs bend with their load,
      Though his feet they seem so small
      That you cannot help forebode
      Some disastrous episode
      In that noisy hall,
      Neither threatening bump nor fall
      Little All-Aloney fears,
      But with sweet bravado steers
      Whither comes that cheery call:
      "All-Aloney!"

      Ah, that in the years to come,
      When he shares of Sorrow's store,--
      When his feet are chill and numb,
      When his cross is burdensome,
      And his heart is sore:
      Would that he could hear once more
      The gentle voice he used to hear--
      Divine with mother love and cheer--
      Calling from yonder spirit shore:
      "All, all alone!"

SEEIN' THINGS

      I ain't afeard uv snakes, or toads, or bugs, or worms, or mice,
      An' things 'at girls are skeered uv I think are awful nice!
      I'm pretty brave, I guess; an' yet I hate to go to bed,
      For, when I'm tucked up warm an' snug an' when my prayers are said,
      Mother tells me "Happy dreams!" and takes away the light,
      An' leaves me lyin' all alone an' seein' things at night!

      Sometimes they're in the corner, sometimes they're by the door,
      Sometimes they're all a-standin' in the middle uv the floor;
      Sometimes they are a-sittin' down, sometimes they're walkin' round
      So softly an' so creepylike they never make a sound!
      Sometimes they are as black as ink, an' other times they're white--
      But the color ain't no difference when you see things at night!

      Once, when I licked a feller 'at had just moved on our street,
      An' father sent me up to bed without a bite to eat,
      I woke up in the dark an' saw things standin' in a row,
      A-lookin' at me cross-eyed an' p'intin' at me--so!
      Oh, my! I wuz so skeered that time I never slep' a mite--
      It's almost alluz when I'm bad I see things at night!

      Lucky thing I ain't a girl, or I'd be skeered to death!
      Bein' I'm a boy, I duck my head an' hold my breath;
      An' I am, oh! so sorry I'm a naughty boy, an' then
      I promise to be better an' I say my prayers again!
      Gran'ma tells me that's the only way to make it right
      When a feller has been wicked an' sees things at night!
      An' so, when other naughty boys would coax me into sin,
      I try to skwush the Tempter's voice 'at urges me within;
      An' when they's pie for supper, or cakes 'at 's big an' nice,
      I want to--but I do not pass my plate f'r them things twice!
      No, ruther let Starvation wipe me slowly out o' sight
      Than I should keep a-livin' on an' seein' things at night!

THE CUNNIN' LITTLE THING

      When baby wakes of mornings,
      Then it's wake, ye people all!
      For another day
      Of song and play
      Has come at our darling's call!
      And, till she gets her dinner,
      She makes the welkin ring,
      And she won't keep still till she's had her fill--
      The cunnin' little thing!

      When baby goes a-walking,
      Oh, how her paddies fly!
      For that's the way
      The babies say
      To other folk "by-by";
      The trees bend down to kiss her,
      And the birds in rapture sing,
      As there she stands and waves her hands--
      The cunnin' little thing!

      When baby goes a-rocking
      In her bed at close of day,
      At hide-and-seek
      On her dainty cheek
      The dreams and the dimples play;
      Then it's sleep in the tender kisses
      The guardian angels bring
      From the Far Above to my sweetest love--
      You cunnin' little thing!

THE DOLL'S WOOING

      The little French doll was a dear little doll
      Tricked out in the sweetest of dresses;
      Her eyes were of hue
      A most delicate blue
      And dark as the night were her tresses;
      Her dear little mouth was fluted and red,
      And this little French doll was so very well bred
      That whenever accosted her little mouth said
      "Mamma! mamma!"

      The stockinet doll, with one arm and one leg,
      Had once been a handsome young fellow;
      But now he appeared
      Rather frowzy and bleared
      In his torn regimentals of yellow;
      Yet his heart gave a curious thump as he lay
      In the little toy cart near the window one day
      And heard the sweet voice of that French dolly say:
      "Mamma! mamma!"

      He listened so long and he listened so hard
      That anon he grew ever so tender,
      For it's everywhere known
      That the feminine tone
      Gets away with all masculine gender!
      He up and he wooed her with soldierly zest
      But all she'd reply to the love he professed
      Were these plaintive words (which perhaps you have guessed):
      "Mamma! mamma!"

      Her mother--a sweet little lady of five--
      Vouchsafed her parental protection,
      And although stockinet
      Wasn't blue-blooded, yet
      She really could make no objection!
      So soldier and dolly were wedded one day,
      And a moment ago, as I journeyed that way,
      I'm sure that I heard a wee baby voice say:
      "Mamma! mamma!"

INSCRIPTION FOR MY LITTLE SON'S SILVER PLATE

      When thou dost eat from off this plate,
      I charge thee be thou temperate;
      Unto thine elders at the board
      Do thou sweet reverence accord;
      And, though to dignity inclined,
      Unto the serving-folk be kind;
      Be ever mindful of the poor,
      Nor turn them hungry from the door;
      And unto God, for health and food
      And all that in thy life is good,
      Give thou thy heart in gratitude.

FISHERMAN JIM'S KIDS

      Fisherman Jim lived on the hill
      With his bonnie wife an' his little boys;
      'T wuz "Blow, ye winds, as blow ye will--
      Naught we reck of your cold and noise!"
      For happy and warm were he an' his,
      And he dandled his kids upon his knee
      To the song of the sea.

      Fisherman Jim would sail all day,
      But, when come night, upon the sands
      His little kids ran from their play,
      Callin' to him an' wavin' their hands;
      Though the wind was fresh and the sea was high,
      He'd hear'em--you bet--above the roar
      Of the waves on the shore!

      Once Fisherman Jim sailed into the bay
      As the sun went down in a cloudy sky,
      And never a kid saw he at play,
      And he listened in vain for the welcoming cry.
      In his little house he learned it all,
      And he clinched his hands and he bowed his head--
      "The fever!" they said.

      'T wuz a pitiful time for Fisherman Jim,
      With them darlin's a-dyin' afore his eyes,
      A-stretchin' their wee hands out to him
      An' a-breakin' his heart with the old-time cries
      He had heerd so often upon the sands;
      For they thought they wuz helpin' his boat ashore--
      Till they spoke no more.

      But Fisherman Jim lived on and on,
      Castin' his nets an' sailin' the sea;
      As a man will live when his heart is gone,
      Fisherman Jim lived hopelessly,
      Till once in those years they come an' said:
      "Old Fisherman Jim is powerful sick--
      Go to him, quick!"

      Then Fisherman Jim says he to me:
      "It's a long, long cruise-you understand--
      But over beyont the ragin' sea
      I kin see my boys on the shinin' sand
      Waitin' to help this ol' hulk ashore,
      Just as they used to--ah, mate, you know!--
      In the long ago."

      No, sir! he wuzn't afeard to die;
      For all night long he seemed to see
      His little boys of the days gone by,
      An' to hear sweet voices forgot by me!
      An' just as the mornin' sun come up--
      "They're holdin' me by the hands!" he cried,
      An' so he died.

"FIDDLE-DEE-DEE"

      There once was a bird that lived up in a tree,
      And all he could whistle was "Fiddle-dee-dee"--
      A very provoking, unmusical song
      For one to be whistling the summer day long!
      Yet always contented and busy was he
      With that vocal recurrence of "Fiddle-dee-dee."

      Hard by lived a brave little soldier of four,
      That weird iteration repented him sore;
      "I prithee, Dear-Mother-Mine! fetch me my gun,
      For, by our St. Didy! the deed must be done
      That shall presently rid all creation and me
      Of that ominous bird and his 'Fiddle-dee-dee'!"

      Then out came Dear-Mother-Mine, bringing her son
      His awfully truculent little red gun;
      The stock was of pine and the barrel of tin,
      The "bang" it came out where the bullet went in--
      The right kind of weapon I think you'll agree
      For slaying all fowl that go "Fiddle-dee-dee"!

      The brave little soldier quoth never a word,
      But he up and he drew a straight bead on that bird;
      And, while that vain creature provokingly sang,
      The gun it went off with a terrible bang!
      Then loud laughed the youth--"By my Bottle," cried he,
      "I've put a quietus on 'Fiddle-dee-dee'!"

      Out came then Dear-Mother-Mine, saying: "My son,
      Right well have you wrought with your little red gun!
      Hereafter no evil at all need I fear,
      With such a brave soldier as You-My-Love here!"
      She kissed the dear boy.
      (The bird in the tree
      Continued to whistle his "Fiddle-dee-dee")

OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY

      Over the hills and far away,
      A little boy steals from his morning play
      And under the blossoming apple-tree
      He lies and he dreams of the things to be:
      Of battles fought and of victories won,
      Of wrongs o'erthrown and of great deeds done--
      Of the valor that he shall prove some day,
      Over the hills and far away--
      Over the hills, and far away!

      Over the hills and far away
      It's, oh, for the toil the livelong day!
      But it mattereth not to the soul aflame
      With a love for riches and power and fame!
      On, O man! while the sun is high--
      On to the certain joys that lie
      Yonder where blazeth the noon of day,
      Over the hills and far away--
      Over the hills, and far away!

      Over the hills and far away,
      An old man lingers at close of day;
      Now that his journey is almost done,
      His battles fought and his victories won--
      The old-time honesty and truth,
      The trustfulness and the friends of youth,
      Home and mother-where are they?
      Over the hills and far away--
      Over the years, and far away!generously made available by The Internet Archive/American
Libraries.)

The Cambridge Book of Poetry for Children

PART I

CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS

C. F. CLAY, MANAGER

  London: FETTER LANE, E.C.
  Edinburgh: 100 PRINCES STREET

  Bombay, Calcutta and Madras: MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD.
  Toronto: J. M. DENT AND SONS, LTD.
  Tokyo: THE MARUZEN-KABUSHIKI-KAISHA

  Copyrighted in the United States of America by
  G. P. PUTNAMS SONS,
  2, 4 AND 6, WEST 45TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY

  _All rights reserved_

The Cambridge Book of Poetry for Children

  Edited by
  KENNETH GRAHAME

  Author of _The Golden Age_, _Dream Days_, _The Wind
  in the Willows_, _etc._

PART I

  Cambridge:
  at the University Press

NOTE

The Editor is indebted to the following authors and publishers for
leave to reprint copyright poems: Mr W. Graham Robertson and Mr Norman
Gale; Messrs Longmans Green & Co. for a poem by Walter Ramal and for a
poem from Stevensons _Childs Garden of Verse_, Messrs Chatto & Windus
for an extract from Swinburnes _Songs Before Sunrise_ and for a poem
from Walter Thornburys _Ballads and Songs_, Messrs G. Routledge & Sons
for a poem by Joaquin Miller, Mr Elliot Stock for an extract from a
play by H. N. Maugham; and Mr John Lane for the Rands, Eugene Field,
and Graham Robertson poems, and for two extracts from John Davidsons
_Fleet Street Eclogues_.

PREFACE

In compiling a selection of Poetry for Children, a conscientious Editor
is bound to find himself confronted with limitations so numerous as
to be almost disheartening. For he has to remember that his task is,
not to provide simple examples of the whole range of English poetry,
but to set up a wicket-gate giving attractive admission to that wide
domain, with its woodland glades, its pasture and arable, its walled
and scented gardens here and there, and so to its sunlit, and sometimes
misty, mountain-tops--all to be more fully explored later by those who
are tempted on by the first glimpse. And always he must be proclaiming
to the small tourists that there is joy, light and fresh air in that
delectable country.

Briefly, I think that blank verse generally, and the drama as a
whole, may very well be left for readers of a riper age. Indeed, I
believe that those who can ignore the plays of Shakespeare and his
fellow-Elizabethans till they are sixteen will be no losers in the
long run. The bulk, too, of seventeenth and eighteenth century poetry,
bending under its burden of classical form and crowded classical
allusion, requires a completed education and a wide range of reading
for its proper appreciation.

Much else also is barred. There are the questions of subject, of
archaic language and thought, and of occasional expression, which will
occur to everyone. Then there is dialect, and here one has to remember
that these poems are intended for use at the very time that a child
is painfully acquiring a normal--often quite arbitrary--orthography.
Is it fair to that child to hammer into him--perhaps literally--that
porridge is spelt porridge, and next minute to present it to him, in an
official Reader, under the guise of parritch? I think not; and I have
accordingly kept as far as possible to the normal, though at some loss
of material.

In the output of those writers who have deliberately written for
children, it is surprising how largely the subject of _death_ is found
to bulk. Dead fathers and mothers, dead brothers and sisters, dead
uncles and aunts, dead puppies and kittens, dead birds, dead flowers,
dead dolls--a compiler of Obituary Verse for the delight of children
could make a fine fat volume with little difficulty. I have turned off
this mournful tap of tears as far as possible, preferring that children
should read of the joy of life, rather than revel in sentimental
thrills of imagined bereavement.

There exists, moreover, any quantity of verse for children, which is
merely verse and nothing more. It lacks the vital spark of heavenly
flame, and is useless to a selector of Poetry. And then there is the
whole corpus of verse--most of it of the present day--which is written
_about_ children, and this has even more carefully to be avoided. When
the time comes that we send our parents to school, it will prove very
useful to the compilers of their primers.

All these restrictions have necessarily led to two results. First,
that this collection is chiefly lyrical--and that, after all, is no
bad thing. Lyric verse may not be representative of the whole range of
English poetry, but as an introduction to it, as a Wicket-gate, there
is no better portal. The second result is, that it is but a small sheaf
that these gleanings amount to; but for those children who frankly do
not care for poetry it will be more than enough; and for those who
love it and delight in it, no selection could ever be sufficiently
satisfying.

                                                    KENNETH GRAHAME.
    _October 1915._

CONTENTS

                                                                 PAGE

  PREFACE                                                           v

  _For the Very Smallest Ones_

    RHYMES AND JINGLES

    FAMILIAR OBJECTS

    COUNTRY BOYS SONGS

  _For Those a Little Older_

    A BUNCH OF LENT LILIES

    SEASONS AND WEATHER

      A Prescription for a Spring

    TASTES AND PREFERENCES

    TOYS AND PLAY, IN-DOORS AND OUT

    DREAM-LAND

      The Drummer-Boy and the

    FAIRY-LAND

    TWO SONGS

    FUR AND FEATHER

    CHRISTMAS POEMS

    VARIOUS

_For the Very Smallest Ones_

RHYMES AND JINGLES

_We begin with some jingles and old rhymes; for rhymes and jingles must
not be despised. They have rhyme, rhythm, melody, and joy; and it is
well for beginners to know that these are all elements of poetry, so
that they will turn to it with pleasant expectation._

MERRY ARE THE BELLS

  Merry are the bells, and merry would they ring,
  Merry was myself, and merry could I sing;
  With a merry ding-dong, happy, gay, and free,
  And a merry sing-song, happy let us be!

  Waddle goes your gait, and hollow are your hose;
  Noddle goes your pate, and purple is your nose;
  Merry is your sing-song, happy, gay, and free;
  With a merry ding-dong, happy let us be!

  Merry have we met, and merry have we been;
  Merry let us part, and merry meet again;
  With our merry sing-song, happy, gay, and free,
  With a merry ding-dong, happy let us be!

SAFE IN BED

  Matthew, Mark, Luke and John,
  Bless the bed that I lie on!
  Four corners to my bed,
  Five angels there lie spread;
    Two at my head,
    Two at my feet,
  One at my heart, my soul to keep.

JENNY WREN

  Jenny Wren fell sick;
    Upon a merry time,
  In came Robin Redbreast,
    And brought her sops of wine.

  Eat well of the sop, Jenny,
    Drink well of the wine;
  Thank you Robin kindly,
    You shall be mine.

  Jenny she got well,
    And stood upon her feet,
  And told Robin plainly
    She loved him not a bit.

  Robin, being angry,
    Hoppd on a twig,
  Saying, Out upon you,
        Fye upon you,
              Bold-faced jig!

CURLY LOCKS

  Curly locks! Curly locks!
    Wilt thou be mine?
  Thou shalt not wash dishes
    Nor yet feed the swine.
  But sit on a cushion
    And sew a fine seam,
  And feed upon strawberries
    Sugar and cream.

PUSSY-CAT MEW

  Pussy-cat Mew jumped over a coal,
  And in her best petticoat burnt a great hole.
  Pussy-cat Mew shall have no more milk
  Till she has mended her gown of silk.

DRAW A PAIL OF WATER

  Draw a pail of water
  For my Ladys daughter.
  Fathers a King,
  Mothers a Queen,
  My two little sisters are dressed in green,
  Stamping marigolds and parsley.

I SAW A SHIP A-SAILING

  I saw a ship a-sailing,
    A-sailing on the sea;
  And it was full of pretty things
    For baby and for me.

  There were sweetmeats in the cabin,
    And apples in the hold;
  The sails were made of silk,
    And the masts were made of gold.

  The four-and-twenty sailors
    That stood between the decks,
  Were four-and-twenty white mice,
    With chains about their necks.

  The captain was a duck,
    With a packet on his back;
  And when the ship began to move,
    The captain cried, Quack, quack!

THE NUT-TREE

  I had a little nut-tree,
    Nothing would it bear
  But a silver nutmeg
    And a golden pear;
  The King of Spains daughter
    She came to see me,
  And all because of my little nut-tree.
  I skipped over water,
    I danced over sea,
  And all the birds in the air couldnt catch me.

MY MAID MARY

  My maid Mary she minds the dairy,
    While I go a-hoeing and a-mowing each morn;
  Gaily run the reel and the little spinning-wheel,
    Whilst I am singing and mowing my corn.

THE WIND AND THE FISHERMAN

  When the wind is in the East,
  Tis neither good for man or beast;
  When the wind is in the North,
  The skilful fisher goes not forth;
  When the wind is in the South,
  It blows the bait in the fishs mouth;
  When the wind is in the West,
  Then tis at the very best.

BLOW, WIND, BLOW

  Blow, wind, blow! and go, mill, go!
    That the miller may grind his corn;
  That the baker may take it and into rolls make it,
    And send us some hot in the morn.

ALL BUSY

  The cocks on the house-top,
    Blowing his horn;
  The bulls in the barn,
    A-threshing of corn;
  The maids in the meadows
    Are making the hay,
  The ducks in the river
   Are swimming away.

WINTER HAS COME

  Cold and raw
    The north wind doth blow
      Bleak in the morning early;
    All the hills are covered with snow,
      And winters now come fairly.

POOR ROBIN

      The north wind doth blow,
      And we shall have snow,
  And what will poor Robin do then, poor thing?
      Hell sit in the barn,
      And keep himself warm,
  And hide his head under his wing, poor thing!

I HAVE A LITTLE SISTER

  I have a little sister, they call her Peep, Peep,
  She wades the waters, deep, deep, deep;
  She climbs the mountains, high, high, high;
  Poor little creature, she has but one eye.
                                  (A star.)

IN MARBLE WALLS

  In marble walls as white as milk,
  Lined with a skin as soft as silk,
  Within a fountain crystal-clear,
  A golden apple doth appear.
  No doors there are to this stronghold,
  Yet thieves break in and steal the gold.
                            (An egg.)

FAMILIAR OBJECTS

_Here are some poems about things with which we are all quite familiar:
the Moon and the Stars that we see through our bedroom window; Pussy
purring on the hearthrug, the spotted shell on the mantelpiece._

THE MOON

  O, look at the moon!
    She is shining up there;
  O mother, she looks
    Like a lamp in the air.

  Last week she was smaller,
    And shaped like a bow;
  But now shes grown bigger,
    And round as an O.

  Pretty moon, pretty moon,
    How you shine on the door,
  And make it all bright
    On my nursery floor!

  You shine on my playthings,
    And show me their place,
  And I love to look up
    At your pretty bright face.

  And there is a star
    Close by you, and maybe
  That small twinkling star
    Is your little baby.

                  ELIZA LEE FOLLEN.

THE STAR

  Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
  How I wonder what you are!
  Up above the world so high,
  Like a diamond in the sky.

  When the blazing sun is gone,
  When he nothing shines upon,
  Then you show your little light,
  Twinkle, twinkle, all the night.

  Then the traveller in the dark
  Thanks you for your tiny spark;
  He could not see which way to go,
  If you did not twinkle so.

  In the dark blue sky you keep,
  And often through my curtains peep,
  For you never shut your eye
  Till the sun is in the sky.

  As your bright and tiny spark
  Lights the traveller in the dark,
  Though I know not what you are,
  Twinkle, twinkle, little star.

               ANN AND JANE TAYLOR.

KITTY

  Once there was a little kitty
    Whiter than snow;
  In a barn she used to frolic,
    Long time ago.

  In the barn a little mousie
    Ran to and fro;
  For she heard the kitty coming,
    Long time ago.

  Two eyes had little kitty,
    Black as a sloe;
  And they spied the little mousie,
    Long time ago.

  Four paws had little kitty,
    Paws soft as dough,
  And they caught the little mousie,
    Long time ago.

  Nine teeth had little kitty,
    All in a row;
  And they bit the little mousie,
    Long time ago.

  When the teeth bit little mousie,
    Little mouse cried Oh!
  But she got away from kitty,
    Long time ago.

                   MRS E. PRENTISS.

KITTY: HOW TO TREAT HER

  I like little Pussy, her coat is so warm,
  And if I dont hurt her shell do me no harm;
  So Ill not pull her tail, nor drive her away,
  But Pussy and I very gently will play.

KITTY: WHAT SHE THINKS OF HERSELF

  I am the Cat of Cats. I am
    The everlasting cat!
  Cunning, and old, and sleek as jam,
    The everlasting cat!
  I hunt the vermin in the night--
    The everlasting cat!
  For I see best without the light--
    The everlasting cat!

                       W. B. RANDS.

THE SEA SHELL

    Sea Shell, Sea Shell,
  Sing me a song, O please!
  A song of ships and sailor-men,
    Of parrots and tropical trees;
  Of islands lost in the Spanish Main
  Which no man ever may see again,
  Of fishes and corals under the waves,
  And sea-horses stabled in great green caves--
      Sea Shell, Sea Shell,
    Sing me a song, O please!

                        AMY LOWELL.

COUNTRY BOYS SONGS

THE CUCKOO

  The cuckoos a bonny bird,
    She sings as she flies;
  She brings us good tidings,
    And tells us no lies.
  She sucks little birds eggs,
    To make her voice clear,
  And never cries Cuckoo
    Till the spring of the year.

THE BIRD-SCARERS SONG

  Weve ploughed our land, weve sown our seed,
  Weve made all neat and gay;
  Then take a bit and leave a bit,
  Away, birds, away!

CRADLE SONG

    Sleep, baby, sleep,
  Our cottage vale is deep;
  The little lamb is on the green,
  With woolly fleece so soft and clean,
    Sleep, baby, sleep!

    Sleep, baby, sleep,
  Down where the woodbines creep;
  Be always like the lamb so mild,
  A kind and sweet and gentle child,
    Sleep, baby, sleep!

GOOD NIGHT!

  Little baby, lay your head
  On your pretty cradle-bed;
  Shut your eye-peeps, now the day
  And the light are gone away;
  All the clothes are tucked in tight;
  Little baby dear, good night.

  Yes, my darling, well I know
  How the bitter wind doth blow;
  And the winters snow and rain
  Patter on the window-pane:
  But they cannot come in here,
  To my little baby dear.

  For the window shutteth fast,
  Till the stormy night is past;
  And the curtains warm are spread
  Round about her cradle-bed:
  So till morning shineth bright
  Little baby dear, good night!

               ANN AND JANE TAYLOR.

_For Those a Little Older_

A BUNCH OF LENT LILIES

_Here three Poets treat the same flower each from his own distinct and
delightful point of view. To the first it appeals as the flower of
courage, the brave early comer; to the second it is the early goer,
the flower of a too swift departure--though daffodils really bloom
for a fairly long time, as flowers go; the third is grateful for an
imperishable recollection._

DAFFODILS

                              ... Daffodils
  That come before the swallow dares, and take
  The winds of March with beauty.

                       SHAKESPEARE.

TO DAFFODILS

  Fair daffodils, we weep to see
    You haste away so soon;
  As yet the early-rising sun
    Has not attaind his noon.
      Stay, stay
    Until the hasting day
      Has run
    But to the evensong;
  And, having prayd together, we
    Will go with you along.

  We have short time to stay, as you,
    We have as short a spring;
  As quick a growth to meet decay,
    As you, or anything.
      We die
    As your hours do, and dry
      Away
    Like to the summers rain;
  Or as the pearls of mornings dew,
    Neer to be found again.

                    ROBERT HERRICK.

DAFFODILS

  I wanderd lonely as a cloud
    That floats on high oer vales and hills,
  When all at once I saw a crowd,
    A host, of golden daffodils;
  Beside the lake, beneath the trees,
  Fluttering and dancing in the breeze.

  Continuous as the stars that shine
    And twinkle on the Milky Way,
  They stretchd in never-ending line
    Along the margin of a bay:
  Ten thousand saw I at a glance,
  Tossing their heads in sprightly dance.

  The waves beside them danced, but they
    Outdid the sparkling waves in glee:
  A poet could not but be gay,
    In such a jocund company:
  I gazed--and gazed--but little thought
  What wealth the show to me had brought:

  For oft, when on my couch I lie
    In vacant or in pensive mood,
  They flash upon that inward eye
    Which is the bliss of solitude;
  And then my heart with pleasure fills,
  And dances with the daffodils.

                WILLIAM WORDSWORTH.

SEASONS AND WEATHER

THE MONTHS

  January brings the snow,
  Makes our feet and fingers glow.

  February brings the rain,
  Thaws the frozen lake again.

  March brings breezes loud and shrill,
  Stirs the dancing daffodil.

  April brings the primrose sweet,
  Scatters daisies at our feet.

  May brings flocks of pretty lambs,
  Skipping by their fleecy dams.

  June brings tulips, lilies, roses,
  Fills the childrens hands with posies.

  Hot July brings cooling showers,
  Apricots and gillyflowers.

  August brings the sheaves of corn,
  Then the harvest home is borne.

  Warm September brings the fruit,
  Sportsmen then begin to shoot.

  Fresh October brings the pheasant,
  Then to gather nuts is pleasant.

  Dull November brings the blast,
  Then the leaves are whirling fast.

  Chill December brings the sleet,
  Blazing fire and Christmas treat.

                    SARA COLERIDGE.

THE WIND IN A FROLIC

  The wind one morning sprang up from sleep,
  Saying, Now for a frolic! now for a leap!
  Now for a madcap galloping chase!
  Ill make a commotion in every place!
  So it swept with a bustle right through a great town,
  Creaking the signs and scattering down
  Shutters; and whisking, with merciless squalls,
  Old womens bonnets and gingerbread stalls.
  There never was heard a much lustier shout,
  As the apples and oranges trundled about;
  And the urchins, that stand with their thievish eyes
  For ever on watch, ran off each with a prize.

  Then away to the field it went blustering and humming,
  And the cattle all wondered whatever was coming.
  It plucked by their tails the grave matronly cows,
  And tossed the colts manes all about their brows,
  Till, offended at such a familiar salute,
  They all turned their backs, and stood sullenly mute.
  So on it went, capering and playing its pranks;
  Whistling with reeds on the broad rivers banks;
  Puffing the birds as they sat on the spray,
  Or the traveller grave on the kings highway.
  It was not too nice[1] to hustle the bags
  Of the beggar, and flutter his dirty rags;
  Twas so bold that it feared not to play its joke
  With the doctors wig, or the gentlemans cloak.
  Through the forest it roared, and cried gaily, Now,
  You sturdy old oaks, Ill make you bow!
  And it made them bow without more ado,
  Or it cracked their great branches through and through.

  Then it rushed like a monster on cottage and farm,
  Striking their dwellers with sudden alarm;
  And they ran out like bees in a midsummer swarm.
  There were dames with their kerchiefs tied over their caps,
  To see if their poultry were free from mishaps;
  The turkeys they gobbled, the geese screamed aloud,
  And the hens crept to roost in a terrified crowd;
  There was rearing of ladders, and logs laying on
  Where the thatch from the roof threatened soon to be gone.
  But the wind had passed on, and had met in a lane
  With a schoolboy, who panted and struggled in vain;
  For it tossed him and twirled him, then passed, and he stood
  With his hat in a pool and his shoe in the mud.

  But away went the wind in its holiday glee,
  And now it was far on the billowy sea,
  And the lordly ships felt its staggering blow,
  And the little boats darted to and fro.
  But lo! it was night, and it sank to rest,
  On the sea-birds rock in the gleaming West,
  Laughing to think, in its fearful fun,
  How little of mischief it had done.

                    WILLIAM HOWITT.

[1] _nice_: particular.

THE FOUR SWEET MONTHS

  First, April, she with mellow showers
  Opens the way for early flowers;
  Then after her comes smiling May,
  In a more sweet and rich array;
  Next enters June, and brings us more
  Gems than those two that went before:
  Then, lastly, July comes and she
  More wealth brings in than all those three.

                    ROBERT HERRICK.

GLAD DAY

    Heres another day, dear,
    Heres the sun again
  Peeping in his pleasant way
    Through the window pane.
    Rise and let him in, dear,
    Hail him hip hurray!
  Now the fun will all begin.
    Heres another day!

    Down the coppice path, dear,
    Through the dewy glade,
  (When the Morning took her bath
    What a splash she made!)
    Up the wet wood-way, dear,
    Under dripping green
  Run to meet another day,
    Brightest ever seen.

    Mushrooms in the field, dear,
    Show their silver gleam.
  What a dainty crop they yield
    Firm as clouted cream,
    Cool as balls of snow, dear,
    Sweet and fresh and round!
  Ere the early dew can go
    We must clear the ground.

    Such a lot to do, dear,
    Such a lot to see!
  How we ever can get through
    Fairly puzzles me.
    Hurry up and out, dear,
    Then--away! away!
  In and out and round about,
    Heres another day!

               W. GRAHAM ROBERTSON.

BUTTERCUPS AND DAISIES

  Buttercups and daisies--
  O the pretty flowers!
  Coming ere the spring-time,
    To tell of sunny hours.
  When the trees are leafless;
    When the fields are bare;
  Buttercups and daisies
    Spring up here and there.

  Welcome, yellow buttercups!
  Welcome, daisies white!
  Ye are in my spirit
    Visiond, a delight!
  Coming ere the spring-time,
    Of sunny hours to tell--
  Speaking to our hearts of Him
    Who doeth all things well.

                       MARY HOWITT.

THE MERRY MONTH OF MARCH

    The cock is crowing,
    The stream is flowing,
    The small birds twitter,
    The lake doth glitter,
  The green field sleeps in the sun;
    The oldest and youngest
    Are at work with the strongest;
    The cattle are grazing,
    Their heads never raising;
  There are forty feeding like one!

    Like an army defeated
    The snow hath retreated,
    And now doth fare ill
    On the top of the bare hill;
  The Plough-boy is whooping anon, anon.
    Theres joy in the mountains;
    Theres life in the fountains;
    Small clouds are sailing,
    Blue sky prevailing;
  The rain is over and gone!

                WILLIAM WORDSWORTH.

WHAT THE BIRDS SAY

  Do you know what the birds say? The sparrow, the dove,
  The linnet and thrush say I love and I love!
  In the winter theyre silent--the wind is so strong;
  What it says I dont know, but it sings a loud song.
  But green leaves, and blossoms, and sunny warm weather,
  And singing, and loving, all come back together.
  But the lark is so brimful of gladness and love,
  The green fields below him, the blue sky above,
  That he sings, and he sings, and for ever sings he--
  I love my love, and my love loves me!

                   S. T. COLERIDGE.

SPRINGS PROCESSION

  First came the primrose,
  On the bank high,
  Like a maiden looking forth
  From the window of a tower
  When the battle rolls below,
  So lookd she,
  And saw the storms go by.

  Then came the wind-flower
  In the valley left behind,
  As a wounded maiden, pale
  With purple streaks of woe,
  When the battle has rolld by
  Wanders to and fro,
  So tottered she,
  Dishevelld in the wind.

  Then came the daisies,
  On the first of May,
  Like a bannerd shows advance
  While the crowd runs by the way,
  With ten thousand flowers about them
      they came trooping through the fields.
  As a happy people come,
  So came they,
  As a happy people come
  When the war has rolld away,
  With dance and tabor, pipe and drum,
  And all make holiday.

  Then came the cowslip,
  Like a dancer in the fair,
  She spread her little mat of green,
  And on it danced she.
  With a fillet bound about her brow,
  A fillet round her happy brow,
  A golden fillet round her brow,
  And rubies in her hair.

                     SYDNEY DOBELL.

THE CALL OF THE WOODS

    Under the greenwood tree,
    Who loves to lie with me,
    And tune his merry note
    Unto the sweet birds throat,
  Come hither, come hither, come hither!
    Here shall he see
    No enemy
  But winter and rough weather.

    Who doth ambition shun,
    And loves to live in the sun,
    Seeking the food he eats,
    And pleasd with what he gets,
  Come hither, come hither, come hither!
    Here shall he see
    No enemy
  But winter and rough weather.

                       SHAKESPEARE.

A PRESCRIPTION FOR A SPRING MORNING

  At early dawn through London you must go
  Until you come where long black hedgerows grow,
  With pink buds pearld, with here and there a tree,
    And gates and stiles; and watch good country folk;
    And scent the spicy smoke
  Of witherd weeds that burn where gardens be;
  And in a ditch perhaps a primrose see.
  The rooks shall stalk the plough, larks mount the skies,
    Blackbirds and speckled thrushes sing aloud,
    Hid in the warm white cloud
  Mantling the thorn, and far away shall rise
  The milky low of cows and farm-yard cries.

  From windy heavens the climbing sun shall shine,
    And February greet you like a maid
    In russet cloak arrayd;
  And you shall take her for your mistress fine,
  And pluck a crocus for her valentine.

                     JOHN DAVIDSON.

THE COUNTRY FAITH

  Here in the countrys heart
  Where the grass is green,
  Life is the same sweet life
  As it eer hath been

  Trust in a God still lives,
  And the bell at morn
  Floats with a thought of God
  Oer the rising corn.

  God comes down in the rain,
  And the crop grows tall--
  This is the country faith,
  And the best of all.

                       NORMAN GALE.

THE BUTTERFLYS BALL

  Come, take up your hats, and away let us haste
  To the Butterflys Ball and the Grasshoppers Feast;
  The Trumpeter, Gadfly, has summoned the crew,
  And the revels are now only waiting for you.
  So said little Robert, and pacing along,
  His merry Companions came forth in a throng,
  And on the smooth Grass by the side of a Wood,
  Beneath a broad oak that for ages had stood,
  Saw the Children of Earth and the Tenants of Air
  For an Evenings Amusement together repair.

  And there came the Beetle, so blind and so black,
  Who carried the Emmet, his friend, on his back.
  And there was the Gnat and the Dragon-fly too,
  With all their Relations, green, orange and blue.
  And there came the Moth, with his plumage of down,
  And the Hornet in jacket of yellow and brown;
  Who with him the Wasp, his companion, did bring,
  But they promised that evening to lay by their sting.
  And the sly little Dormouse crept out of his hole,
  And brought to the feast his blind Brother, the Mole,
  And the Snail, with his horns peeping out of his shell,
  Came from a great distance, the length of an ell.

  A Mushroom their Table, and on it was laid
  A water-dock leaf, which a table-cloth made.
  The Viands were various, to each of their taste,
  And the Bee brought her honey to crown the Repast.
  Then close on his haunches, so solemn and wise,
  The Frog from a corner lookd up to the skies;
  And the Squirrel, well pleased such diversions to see,
  Mounted high overhead and lookd down from a tree.

  Then out came the Spider, with finger so fine,
  To show his dexterity on the tight-line.
  From one branch to another his cobwebs he slung,
  Then quick as an arrow he darted along.
  But just in the middle--oh! shocking to tell,
  From his rope, in an instant, poor Harlequin fell.
  Yet he touched not the ground, but with talons outspread,
  Hung suspended in air, at the end of a thread.

  Then the Grasshopper came, with a jerk and a spring,
  Very long was his leg, though but short was his Wing;
  He took but three leaps, and was soon out of sight,
  Then chirpd his own praises the rest of the night.

  With step so majestic the Snail did advance,
  And promised the Gazers a Minuet to dance;
  But they all laughed so loud that he pulled in his head,
  And went in his own little chamber to bed.
  Then as Evening gave way to the shadows of Night,
  Their Watchman, the Glowworm, came out with a light.

  Then home let us hasten, while yet we can see,
  For no Watchman is waiting for you and for me.
  So said little Robert, and pacing along,
  His merry Companions returnd in a throng.

                    WILLIAM ROSCOE.

TASTES AND PREFERENCES

A WISH

  Mine be a cot beside the hill;
    A bee-hives hum shall soothe my ear;
  A willowy brook, that turns a mill,
    With many a fall shall linger near.

  The swallow oft beneath my thatch
    Shall twitter from her clay-built nest;
  Oft shall the pilgrim lift the latch
    And share my meal, a welcome guest.

  Around my ivied porch shall spring
    Each fragrant flower that drinks the dew;
  And Lucy at her wheel shall sing
    In russet gown and apron blue.

  The village church among the trees,
    Where first our marriage vows were given,
  With merry peals shall swell the breeze,
    And point with taper spire to Heaven.

                     SAMUEL ROGERS.

WISHING

  Ring-ting! I wish I were a Primrose,
  A bright yellow Primrose blowing in the Spring!
      The stooping boughs above me,
      The wandering bee to love me,
  The fern and moss to creep across,
          And the Elm-tree for our King!

  Nay--stay! I wish I were an Elm-tree,
  A great lofty Elm-tree, with green leaves gay!
      The winds would set them dancing,
      The sun and moonshine glance in,
  The birds would house among the boughs,
          And sweetly sing!

  O--no! I wish I were a Robin,
  A Robin or a little Wren, everywhere to go;
      Through forest, field, or garden,
      And ask no leave or pardon,
  Till Winter comes with icy thumbs
          To ruffle up our wing!

  Well--tell! Where should I fly to,
  Where go to sleep in the dark wood or dell?
      Before a day was over,
      Home comes the rover,
  For Mothers kiss,--sweeter this
          Than any other thing!

                 WILLIAM ALLINGHAM.

BUNCHES OF GRAPES

  Bunches of grapes, says Timothy;
  Pomegranates pink, says Elaine;
  A junket of cream and a cranberry tart
  For me, says Jane.

  Love-in-a-mist, says Timothy;
  Primroses pale, says Elaine;
  A nosegay of pinks and mignonette
  For me, says Jane.

  Chariots of gold, says Timothy;
  Silvery wings, says Elaine;
  A bumpity ride in a waggon of hay
  For me, says Jane.

                      WALTER RAMAL.

CONTENTMENT

  Once on a time an old red hen
    Went strutting round with pompous clucks,
  For she had little babies ten,
    A part of which were tiny ducks.
  Tis very rare that hens, said she,
    Have baby ducks as well as chicks--
  But I possess, as you can see,
    Of chickens four and ducklings six!

  A season later, this old hen
    Appeared, still cackling of her luck,
  For, though she boasted babies ten,
    Not one among them was a duck!
  Tis well, she murmured, brooding oer
    The little chicks of fleecy down,
  My babies now will stay ashore,
    And, consequently, cannot drown!

  The following spring the old red hen
    Clucked just as proudly as of yore--
  But lo! her babes were ducklings ten,
    Instead of chickens as before!
  Tis better, said the old red hen,
    As she surveyed her waddling brood;
  A little water now and then
    Will surely do my darlings good!

  But oh! alas, how very sad!
    When gentle spring rolled round again,
  The eggs eventuated bad,
    And childless was the old red hen!
  Yet patiently she bore her woe,
    And still she wore a cheerful air,
  And said: Tis best these things are so,
    For babies are a dreadful care!

  I half suspect that many men,
    And many, many women too,
  Could learn a lesson from the hen
    With plumage of vermilion hue.
  She neer presumed to take offence
  At any fate that might befall,
  But meekly bowed to Providence--
  She was contented--that was all!

                      EUGENE FIELD.

TOYS AND PLAY, IN-DOORS AND OUT

THE LAND OF STORY-BOOKS

  At evening when the lamp is lit,
  Around the fire my parents sit;
  They sit at home and talk and sing,
  And do not play at anything.

  Now, with my little gun, I crawl
  All in the dark along the wall,
  And follow round the forest track
  Away behind the sofa back.

  There, in the night, where none can spy,
  All in my hunters camp I lie,
  And play at books that I have read
  Till it is time to go to bed.
  These are the hills, these are the woods,
  These are my starry solitudes;
  And there the river by whose brink
  The roaring lions come to drink.

  I see the others far away
  As if in firelit camp they lay,
  And I, like to an Indian scout,
  Around their party prowled about.

  So, when my nurse comes in for me,
  Home I return across the sea,
  And go to bed with backward looks
  At my dear land of Story-books.

                   R. L. STEVENSON.

SAND CASTLES

  Build me a castle of sand
      Down by the sea.
  Here on the edge of the strand
      Build it for me.
  How shall a foeman invade,
      Where may he land,
  While we can raise with our spade
      Castles of sand?

  Turrets upleap and aspire,
      Battlements rise
  Sweeping the sea with their fire,
      Storming the skies.
  Pile that a monarch might own,
      Mightily plannd!
  I cant sit here on a throne,
      This is too grand.

  Build me a cottage of sand
      Up on the hill;
  Snug in a cleft it must stand
      Sunny and still.
  Plant it with ragwort and ling,
      Bramble and bine:
  Castles Ill leave to the King,
      This shall be mine.

  Storm-clouds drive over the land,
      High flies the spray;
  Gone are our houses of sand,
      Vanished away!
  Look at the damage youve done,
      Sea-wave and rain!
  --Nay, we but give you your fun
      Over again.

               W. GRAHAM ROBERTSON.

RING O ROSES

  Hush a while, my darling, for the long day closes,
    Nodding into slumber on the blue hills crest.
  See the little clouds play Ring a ring o roses,
    Planting Fairy gardens in the red-rose West.

  Greet him for us, cloudlets, say were not forgetting
    Golden gifts of sunshine, merry hours of play.
  Ring a ring o roses round the sweet suns setting,
    Spread a bed of roses for the dear dead day.

  Hush-a-bye, my little one, the dear day dozes,
    Doffed his crown of kingship and his fair flag furled,
  While the earth and sky play Ring a ring o roses,
    Ring a ring o roses round the rose-red world.

               W. GRAHAM ROBERTSON.

DREAM-LAND

WYNKEN, BLYNKEN, AND NOD

  Wynken, Blynken, and Nod one night
    Sailed off in a wooden shoe--
  Sailed on a river of crystal light,
    Into a sea of dew.
  Where are you going, and what do you wish?
    The old moon asked the three.
  We have come to fish for the herring fish
    That live in this beautiful sea;
    Nets of silver and gold have we!
                        Said Wynken,
                        Blynken,
                        And Nod.

  The old moon laughed and sang a song,
    As they rocked in the wooden shoe,
  And the wind that sped them all night long
    Ruffled the waves of dew.
  The little stars were the herring fish
    That lived in that beautiful sea--
  Now cast your nets wherever you wish--
    Never afeared are we:
    So cried the stars to the fishermen three:
                        Wynken,
                        Blynken,
                        And Nod.

  All night long their nets they threw
    To the stars in the twinkling foam--
  Then down from the skies came the wooden shoe,
    Bringing the fishermen home;
  Twas all so pretty a sail it seemed
    As if it could not be,
  And some folks thought twas a dream theyd dreamed
    Of sailing that beautiful sea--
    But I shall name you the fishermen three:
                        Wynken,
                        Blynken,
                        And Nod.

  Wynken and Blynken are two little eyes,
    And Nod is a little head,
  And the wooden shoe that sailed the skies
    Is a wee ones trundle-bed.
  So shut your eyes while mother sings
    Of wonderful sights that be,
  And you shall see the beautiful things
    As you rock in the misty sea,
    Where the old shoe rocked the fishermen three:
                        Wynken,
                        Blynken,
                        And Nod.

                      EUGENE FIELD.

THE DRUMMER-BOY AND THE SHEPERDESS

  Drummer-boy, drummer-boy, where is your drum?
  And why do you weep, sitting here on your thumb?
  The soldiers are out, and the fifes we can hear;
  But where is the drum of the young grenadier?

  My dear little drum it was stolen away
  Whilst I was asleep on a sunshiny day;
  It was all through the drone of a big bumblebee,
  And sheep and a shepherdess under a tree.

  Shepherdess, shepherdess, where is your crook?
  And why is your little lamb over the brook?
  It bleats for its dam, and dog Tray is not by,
  So why do you stand with a tear in your eye?

  My dear little crook it was stolen away
  Whilst I dreamt a dream on a morning in May;
  It was all through the drone of a big bumblebee,
  And a drum and a drummer-boy under a tree.

                       W. B. RANDS.

THE LAND OF DREAMS

  Awake, awake, my little boy!
  Thou wast thy mothers only joy;
  Why dost thou weep in thy gentle sleep?
  O wake! thy father doth thee keep.

  O what land is the land of dreams?
  What are its mountains and what are its streams?
  O father! I saw my mother there,
  Among the lilies by waters fair.

  Dear child! I also by pleasant streams
  Have wandered all night in the land of dreams,
  But, though calm and warm the waters wide
  I could not get to the other side.

  Father, O father! what do we here,
  In this land of unbelief and fear?
  The land of dreams is better far,
  Above the light of the morning star.

                     WILLIAM BLAKE.

SWEET AND LOW

  Sweet and low, sweet and low,
  Wind of the western sea,
  Low, low, breathe and blow,
    Wind of the western sea!
  Over the rolling waters go,
  Come from the dying moon, and blow,
    Blow him again to me;
  While my little one, while my pretty one, sleeps.

  Sleep and rest, sleep and rest,
    Father will come to thee soon;
  Rest, rest, on mothers breast,
    Father will come to thee soon;
  Father will come to his babe in the nest,
  Silver sails all out of the west
    Under the silver moon:
  Sleep, my little one, sleep, my pretty one, sleep.

             ALFRED, LORD TENNYSON.

CRADLE SONG

  O hush thee, my baby, thy sire was a knight,
  Thy mother a lady, both lovely and bright;
  The woods and the glens, from the towers which we see,
  They all are belonging, dear baby, to thee.

  O fear not the bugle, though loudly it blows,
  It calls but the warders that guard thy repose;
  Their bows would be bended, their blades would be red,
  Ere the step of a foeman draws near to thy bed.

  O hush thee, my baby, the time will soon come,
  When thy sleep shall be broken by trumpet and drum;
  Then hush thee, my darling, take rest while you may,
  For strife comes with manhood, and waking with day.

                  SIR WALTER SCOTT.

MOTHER AND I

  O Mother-My-Love, if youll give me your hand,
    And go where I ask you to wander,
  I will lead you away to a beautiful land--
    The Dreamland thats waiting out yonder.
  Well walk in a sweet-posy garden out there,
    Where moonlight and starlight are streaming,
  And the flowers and the birds are filling the air
    With the fragrance and music of dreaming.

  Therell be no little tired-out boy to undress,
    No questions or cares to perplex you;
  Therell be no little bruises or bumps to caress,
    Nor patching of stockings to vex you.
  For Ill rock you away on a silver-dew stream,
    And sing you asleep when youre weary,
  And no one shall know of our beautiful dream
    But you and your own little dearie.

  And when I am tired Ill nestle my head
    In the bosom thats soothd me so often,
  And the wide-awake stars shall sing in my stead
    A song which our dreaming shall soften.
  So Mother-My-Love, let me take your dear hand,
    And away through the starlight well wander--
  Away through the mist to the beautiful land--
    The Dreamland thats waiting out yonder!

                      EUGENE FIELD.

FAIRY-LAND

THE FAIRIES

  Up the airy mountain,
    Down the rushy glen,
  We darent go a-hunting
    For fear of little men;
  Wee folk, good folk,
  Trooping all together;
  Green jacket, red cap,
    And white owls feather!

  Down along the rocky shore
    Some make their home,
  They live on crispy pancakes
    Of yellow tide-foam;
  Some in the reeds
    Of the black mountain-lake,
  With frogs for their watch-dogs,
    All night awake.

  High on the hill-top
  The old King sits;
  He is now so old and grey
    Hes nigh lost his wits.
  With a bridge of white mist
    Columbkill he crosses,
  On his stately journeys
    From Slieveleague to Rosses;
  Or going up with music
    On cold starry nights,
  To sup with the Queen
    Of the gay Northern Lights.

  They stole little Bridget
    For seven years long;
  When she came down again
    Her friends were all gone.
  They took her lightly back,
    Between the night and morrow,
  They thought that she was fast asleep,
    But she was dead with sorrow.
  They have kept her ever since
    Deep within the lakes,
  On a bed of flag-leaves,
    Watching till she wakes.

  By the craggy hill-side,
    Through the mosses bare,
  They have planted thorn-trees
    For pleasure here and there.
  Is any man so daring
    As dig one up in spite,
  He shall find their sharpest thorns
    In his bed at night.

  Up the airy mountain,
    Down the rushy glen,
  We darent go a-hunting
    For fear of little men;
  Wee folk, good folk,
    Trooping all together,
  Green jacket, red cap,
    And white owls feather!

                 WILLIAM ALLINGHAM.

SHAKESPEARES FAIRIES

_Some of them_,--

  Ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes and groves,
  And ye that on the sands with printless foot
  Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him
  When he comes back; you demi-puppets[2], that
  By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make
  Whereof the ewe not bites, and you whose pastime
  Is to make midnight mushrooms, that rejoice
  To hear the solemn curfew....

_They Dance and Play_,--

    Come unto these yellow sands,
    And then take hands:
  Courtsied when you have, and kissd,--
    The wild waves whist[3],--
  Foot it featly[4] here and there;
    And, sweet sprites, the burthen bear.
    Hark, hark!
              _Bow, wow_,
    The watch-dogs bark:
              _Bow, wow_,
    Hark, hark! I hear
  The strain of strutting chanticleer
  Cry, Cock-a-diddle-dow!

_Ariel Sings_,--

  Where the bee sucks, there suck I:
    In a cowslips bell I lie;
  There I couch when owls do cry.
  On the bats back I do fly
  After summer merrily.
    Merrily, merrily, shall I live now,
    Under the blossom that hangs on the bough.

_A Busy One_

  Over hill, over dale,
    Thorough bush, thorough brier,
  Over park, over pale,
    Thorough flood, thorough fire,
    I do wander everywhere,
    Swifter than the moons sphere;
    And I serve the fairy queen,
    To dew her orbs[5] upon the green.

    The cowslips tall her pensioners be;
    In their gold coats spots you see;
    Those be rubies, fairy favours,
    In those freckles live their savours:
  I must go seek some dewdrops here,
  And hang a pearl in every cowslips ear.

_They Sing Their Queen to Sleep_,--

    You spotted snakes with double tongue,
      Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen;
    Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong;
      Come not near our fairy queen.
        Philomel, with melody
        Sing in our sweet lullaby;
  Lulla, lulla, lullaby; lulla, lulla, lullaby!
        Never harm,
        Nor spell nor charm,
      Come our lovely lady nigh;
      So, good night, with lullaby.

    Weaving spiders, come not here;
      Hence, you long-leggd spinners, hence!
    Beetles black, approach not near;
      Worm nor snail, do no offence.
        Philomel, with melody,
        Sing in our sweet lullaby;
  Lulla, lulla, lullaby; lulla, lulla, lullaby!
        Never harm,
        Nor spell nor charm,
      Come our lovely lady nigh;
      So, good night, with lullaby.

                       SHAKESPEARE.

[2] _Demi-puppets_: half the size of a doll.

[3] _Whist_: silent.

[4] _Featly_: neatly, elegantly.

[5] _Orbs_: circles, or fairy rings.

THE LAVENDER BEDS

  The garden was pleasant with old-fashioned flowers,
  The sunflowers and hollyhocks stood up like towers;
  There were dark turncap lilies and jessamine rare,
  And sweet thyme and marjoram scented the air.

  The moon made the sun-dial tell the time wrong;
  Twas too late in the year for the nightingales song;
  The box-trees were clipped, and the alleys were straight,
  Till you came to the shrubbery hard by the gate.

  The fairies stepped out of the lavender beds,
  With mob-caps, or wigs, on their quaint little heads;
  My lord had a sword and my lady a fan;
  The music struck up and the dancing began.

  I watched them go through with a grave minuet;
  Wherever they footed the dew was not wet;
  They bowed and they curtsied, the brave and the fair;
  And laughter like chirping of crickets was there.

  Then all on a sudden a church clock struck loud:
  A flutter, a shiver, was seen in the crowd,
  The cock crew, the wind woke, the trees tossed their heads,
  And the fairy folk hid in the lavender beds.

                       W. B. RANDS.

FAREWELL TO THE FAIRIES

  Farewell rewards and fairies,
    Good housewives now may say,
  For now foul sluts in dairies
    Do fare as well as they.
  And though they sweep their hearths no less
    Than maids were wont to do,
  Yet who of late, for cleanliness,
    Finds sixpence in her shoe?

  At morning and at evening both,
    You merry were and glad,
  So little care of sleep or sloth
    Those pretty ladies had.
  When Tom came home from labour,
    Or Cis to milking rose,
  Then merrily went their tabor,
    And nimbly went their toes.

  Witness those rings and roundelays
    Of theirs, which yet remain,
  Were footed in Queen Marys days
    On many a grassy plain;
  But since of late Elizabeth,
    And later, James came in,
  They never danced on any heath
    As when the time hath been.

  By which we note the fairies
    Were of the old profession,
  Their songs were Ave-Maries,
    Their dances were procession:
  But now, alas! they all are dead,
    Or gone beyond the seas;
  Or farther for religion fled,
    Or else they take their ease.

  A tell-tale in their company
    They never could endure,
  And whoso kept not secretly
    Their mirth, was punished sure;
  It was a just and Christian deed
    To pinch such black and blue:
  O how the commonwealth doth need
    Such justices as you!

        RICHARD CORBET (1582-1635).

DIRGE ON THE DEATH OF OBERON, THE FAIRY KING

  Toll the lilies silver bells!
    Oberon, the King, is dead!
  In her grief the crimson rose
    All her velvet leaves has shed.

  Toll the lilies silver bells!
    Oberon is dead and gone!
  He who looked an emperor
    When his glow-worm crown was on.

  Toll the lilies silver bells!
    Slay the dragonfly, his steed;
  Dig his grave within the ring
    Of the mushrooms in the mead.

                   G. W. THORNBURY.

(_But he wasnt dead really. It was all a mistake. So they didnt slay
the dragonfly after all._)

KILMENY

(_A Story about one who went there_)

  Bonny Kilmeny gaed[6] up the glen;
  But it wasna to meet Duneiras men,
  Nor the rosy monk of the isle to see,
  For Kilmeny was pure as pure could be.
  It was only to hear the yorlin[7] sing,
  And pull the blue cress-flower round the spring;
  To pull the hip and the hindberrye[8],
  And the nut that hung frae the hazel-tree;
  For Kilmeny was pure as pure could be.
  But lang may her minnie[9] look oer the wa,
  And lang may she seek in the greenwood shaw;
  Lang the Laird o Duneira blame,
  And lang, lang greet[10] eer Kilmeny come hame!

  When many a day had come and fled,
  When grief grew calm, and hope was dead,
  When mass for Kilmenys soul had been sung,
  When the bedesman had prayed and the dead-bell rung;
  Late, late in a gloaming, when all was still,
  When the fringe was red on the westlin[11] hill,
  The wood was sere, the moon i the wane,
  The reek[12] of the cot hung oer the plain,
  Like a little wee cloud in the world its lane[13];
  When the ingle[14] lowed[15] with an eery gleam,
  Late, late in the gloamin, Kilmeny came hame!

  Kilmeny, Kilmeny, where have you been?
  Lang hae we sought baith holt and dene;
  By linn[16], by ford, and green-wood tree,
  Yet you are halesome and fair to see.
  Where gat you that joup[17] of the lily sheen?
  That bonny snood[18] of the birk[19] sae green?
  And these roses, the fairest that ever were seen?
  Kilmeny, Kilmeny, where have you been?

  Kilmeny lookd up with a lovely grace,
  But nae smile was seen on Kilmenys face;
  As still was her look, and as still was her ee,
  As the stillness that lay on the emerald lea,
  Or the mist that sleeps on a waveless sea.
  For Kilmeny had been she knew not where,
  And Kilmeny had seen what she could not declare.
  Kilmeny had been where the cock never crew,
  Where the rain never fell, and the wind never blew.
  But it seemd as the harp of the sky had rung,
  And the airs of heaven playd round her tongue,
  When she spake of the lovely forms she had seen,
  And a land where sin had never been;
  A land of love and a land of light,
  Withouten sun, or moon, or night;
  The land of vision it would seem,
  And still an everlasting dream.

         *       *       *       *       *

  They lifted Kilmeny, they led her away,
  And she walkd in the light of a sunless day;
  The sky was a dome of crystal bright,
  The fountain of vision, and fountain of light:
  The emerald fields were of dazzling glow,
  And the flowers of everlasting blow.
  Then deep in the stream her body they laid,
  That her youth and beauty might never fade;
  And they smiled on heaven, when they saw her lie
  In the stream of life that wanderd by.
  And she heard a song, she heard it sung,
  She kennd not where; but so sweetly it rung,
  It fell on the ear like a dream of the morn:
  O blest be the day Kilmeny was born!

         *       *       *       *       *

  To sing of the sights Kilmeny saw,
  So far surpassing natures law,
  The singers voice would sink away,
  And the string of his harp would cease to play.
  But she saw till the sorrows of man were by,
  And all was love and harmony;
  Till the stars of heaven fell calmly away,
  Like the flakes of snow on a winter day.

         *       *       *       *       *

  When seven lang years had come and fled,
  When grief was calm and hope was dead;
  When scarce was remembered Kilmenys name,
  Late, late in a gloaming Kilmeny came hame!
  And O, her beauty was fair to see,
  But still and steadfast was her ee!
  Her seymar[20] was the lily flower,
  And her cheek the moss-rose in the shower;
  And her voice like the distant melody
  That floats along the twilight sea.
  But she loved to raike[21] the lanely glen,
  And keepit away frae the haunts of men;
  Her holy hymns unheard to sing,
  To suck the flowers, and drink the spring.
  But wherever her peaceful form appeard,
  The wild beasts of the hill were cheerd;
  The wolf playd blythly round the field,
  The lordly bison lowd and kneeld;
  The dun deer wood with manner bland,
  And cowerd aneath her lily hand.
  And all in a peaceful ring were hurld;
  It was like an eve in a sinless world!

  When a month and a day had come and gane,
  Kilmeny sought the green-wood wene;
  There laid her down on the leaves sae green,
  And Kilmeny on earth was never mair seen.

                        JAMES HOGG.

 [6] _gaed_: went.

 [7] _yorlin_: yellow-hammer.

 [8] _hindberrye_: wild raspberry.

 [9] _minnie_: mother.

[10] _greet_: weep.

[11] _westlin_: western.

[12] _reek_: smoke.

[13] _its lane_: alone.

[14] _ingle_: fire.

[15] _lowed_: flamed.

[16] _linn_: waterfall.

[17] _joup_: bodice.

[18] _snood_: hair-ribbon.

[19] _birk_: birch.

[20] _seymar_: a light robe.

[21] _raike_: wander through.

TWO SONGS

A BOYS SONG

  Where the pools are bright and deep,
  Where the grey trout lies asleep,
  Up the river and over the lea,
  Thats the way for Billy and me.

  Where the blackbird sings the latest,
  Where the hawthorn blooms the sweetest,
  Where the nestlings chirp and flee,
  Thats the way for Billy and me.

  Where the mowers mow the cleanest,
  Where the hay lies thick and greenest,
  There to track the homeward bee,
  Thats the way for Billy and me.

  Where the hazel bank is steepest,
  Where the shadow falls the deepest,
  Where the clustering nuts fall free,
  Thats the way for Billy and me.

  Why the boys should drive away
  Little sweet maidens from the play,
  Or love to banter and fight so well,
  Thats the thing I never could tell.

  But this I know, I love to play
  Through the meadow, among the hay;
  Up the water and over the lea,
  Thats the way for Billy and me.

                        JAMES HOGG.

A GIRLS SONG

  Theres a bower of roses by Bendemeers stream,
    And the nightingale sings round it all the day long;
  In the time of my childhood twas like a sweet dream
    To sit in the roses and hear the birds song.

  That bower and its music I never forget,
    But oft when alone in the bloom of the year,
  I think--is the nightingale singing there yet?
    Are the roses still bright by the calm Bendemeer?

  No, the roses soon withered that hung oer the wave,
    But some blossoms were gathered, while freshly they shone,
  And a dew was distilled from their flowers, that gave
    All the fragrance of summer, when summer was gone.

  Thus memory draws from delight, ere it dies,
    An essence that breathes of it many a year;
  Thus bright to my soul, as twas then to my eyes,
    Is that bower on the banks of the calm Bendemeer!

                      THOMAS MOORE.

FUR AND FEATHER

  _Men are brethren of each other,
    One in flesh and one in food;
  And a sort of foster brother
    Is the litter, or the brood,
  Of that folk in fur or feather,
      Who, with men together,
      Breast the wind and weather._

                CHRISTINA ROSSETTI.

THREE THINGS TO REMEMBER

  A Robin Redbreast in a cage
  Puts all Heaven in a rage.

  A skylark wounded on the wing
  Doth make a cherub cease to sing.

  He who shall hurt the little wren
  Shall never be beloved by men.

                     WILLIAM BLAKE.

THE KNIGHT OF BETHLEHEM

  There was a Knight of Bethlehem,
    Whose wealth was tears and sorrows;
  His men-at-arms were little lambs,
    His trumpeters were sparrows.
  His castle was a wooden cross,
    On which he hung so high;
  His helmet was a crown of thorns,
    Whose crest did touch the sky.

                     H. N. MAUGHAM.

THE LAMB

    Little Lamb, who made thee?
    Dost thou know who made thee?
  Gave thee life, and bade thee feed
  By the stream and oer the mead;
  Gave thee clothing of delight,
  Softest clothing, woolly, bright;
  Gave thee such a tender voice,
  Making all the vales rejoice?
    Little lamb, who made thee?
    Dost thou know who made thee?

    Little lamb, Ill tell thee;
    Little lamb, Ill tell thee:
  He is calld by thy name,
  For He calls Himself a Lamb.
  He is meek, and He is mild,
  He became a little child.
  I a child, and thou a lamb,
  We are called by His name.
    Little lamb, God bless thee!
    Little lamb, God bless thee!

                     WILLIAM BLAKE.

THE TIGER

  Tiger, Tiger, burning bright
  In the forest of the night,
  What immortal hand or eye
  Framed thy fearful symmetry?

  In what distant deeps or skies
  Burned that fire within thine eyes?
  On what wings dared he aspire?
  What the hand dared seize the fire?

  And what shoulder, and what art,
  Could twist the sinews of thy heart?
  When thy heart began to beat,
  What dread hand formed thy dread feet?

  What the hammer, what the chain,
  Knit thy strength and forged thy brain?
  What the anvil? What dread grasp
  Dared thy deadly terrors clasp?

  When the stars threw down their spears,
  And waterd heaven with their tears,
  Did He smile His work to see?
  Did He who made the lamb make thee?

                     WILLIAM BLAKE.

I HAD A DOVE

  I had a dove, and the sweet dove died;
    And I have thought it died of grieving;
  O, what could it grieve for? Its feet were tied
    With a silken thread of my own hands weaving.
  Sweet little red feet! why should you die--
  Why would you leave me, sweet bird! why?
  You lived alone in the forest tree,
  Why, pretty thing! would you not live with me?
  I kissd you oft and gave you white peas;
  Why not live sweetly, as in the green trees?

                        JOHN KEATS.

ROBIN REDBREAST

  Good-bye, good-bye to Summer!
    For Summers nearly done;
  The garden smiling faintly,
    Cool breezes in the sun;
  Our thrushes now are silent,
    Our swallows flown away,--
  But Robins here in coat of brown,
    And scarlet breast-knot gay.
  Robin, Robin Redbreast,
    O Robin dear!
  Robin sings so sweetly
    In the falling of the year.

  Bright yellow, red, and orange,
    The leaves come down in hosts;
  The trees are Indian princes,
    But soon theyll turn to ghosts;
  The leathery pears and apples
    Hang russet on the bough;
  Its Autumn, Autumn, Autumn late,
    Twill soon be Winter now.
  Robin, Robin Redbreast,
    O Robin dear!
  And what will this poor Robin do?
    For pinching days are near.

  The fireside for the cricket,
    The wheatstack for the mouse,
  When trembling night-winds whistle
    And moan all round the house.
  The frosty ways like iron,
    The branches plumed with snow,--
  Alas! in winter dead and dark,
    Where can poor Robin go?
  Robin, Robin Redbreast,
    O Robin dear!
  And a crumb of bread for Robin,
    His little heart to cheer.

                 WILLIAM ALLINGHAM.

BLACK BUNNY

  It was a black Bunny, with white in its head,
  Alive when the children went cosy to bed--
  O early next morning that Bunny was dead!

  When Bunnys young master awoke up from sleep,
  To look at the creatures young master did creep,
  And saw that this black one lay all of a heap.

  O Bunny, what ails you? What does it import
  That you lean on one side, with your breath coming short?
  For I never before saw a thing of the sort!

  They took him so gently up out of his hutch,
  They made him a sick-bed, they loved him so much;
  They wrapped him up warm; they said, Poor thing, and such;

  But all to no purpose. Black Bunny he died,
  And rolled over limp on his little black side;
  The grown-up spectators looked awkward and sighed.

  While, as for those others in that congregation,
  You heard voices lifted in sore lamentation;
  But three-year-old Baby desired explanation:

  At least, so it seemed. Then they buried their dead
  In a nice quiet place, with a flag at his head;
  Poor Bunny!--in large print--was what the flag said.

  Now, as they were shovelling the earth in the hole,
  Little Baby burst out, I _dont_ like it!--poor soul!
  And bitterly wept. So the dead had his dole.

  That evening, as Babe she was cuddling to bed,
  The Bunny will come back again, Baby said,
  And be a _white_ bunny, and never be dead!

                       W. B. RANDS.

THE COW

  Thank you, pretty cow, that made
  Pleasant milk to soak my bread,
  Every day, and every night,
  Warm, and fresh, and sweet, and white.

  Do not chew the hemlock rank,
  Growing on the weedy bank;
  But the yellow cowslips eat,
  They will make it very sweet.

  Where the purple violet grows,
  Where the bubbling water flows,
  Where the grass is fresh and fine,
  Pretty cow, go there and dine.

               ANN AND JANE TAYLOR.

THE SKYLARK

    Bird of the wilderness,
    Blythesome and cumberless[22],
  Sweet be thy matin oer moorland and lea!
    Emblem of happiness,
    Blest is thy dwelling-place--
  O to abide in the desert with thee!
    Wild is thy lay and loud
    Far in the downy cloud,
  Love gives it energy, love gave it birth.
    Where, on thy dewy wing,
    Where art thou journeying?
  Thy lay is in heaven, thy love is on earth.
    Oer fell and fountain sheen,
    Oer moor and mountain green,
  Oer the red streamer that heralds the day,
    Over the cloudlet dim,
    Over the rainbows rim,
  Musical cherub, soar, singing, away!
    Then, when the gloaming comes,
    Low in the heather blooms,
  Sweet will thy welcome and bed of love be!
    Emblem of happiness,
    Blest is thy dwelling-place--
  O to abide in the desert with thee!

                        JAMES HOGG.

[22] _cumberless_: unencumbered, free from care.

CHRISTMAS POEMS

_Here one would like to have begun with some of the old-time carols.
But carols, somehow, seem to demand certain accompaniments--snow and
frost, starlight and lantern-light, a mingling of Church bells, and
above all their own simple haunting music. In cold print they do not
appeal to us to the same extent. But the poems that follow are in the
true carol-spirit._

CHRISTMAS EVE

  In holly hedges starving birds
    Silently mourn the setting year;
  Upright like silver-plated swords
    The flags stand in the frozen mere.

  The mistletoe we still adore
    Upon the twisted hawthorn grows:
  In antique gardens hellebore
    Puts forth its blushing Christmas rose.

  Shrivelld and purple, cheek by jowl,
    The hips and haws hang drearily;
  Rolld in a ball the sulky owl
    Creeps far into his hollow tree.

  In abbeys and cathedrals dim
    The birth of Christ is acted oer;
  The kings of Cologne worship him,
    Balthazar, Jasper, Melchior.

  The shepherds in the field at night
    Beheld an angel glory-clad,
  And shrank away with sore affright.
    Be not afraid, the angel bade.

  I bring good news to king and clown,
    To you here crouching on the sward;
  For there is born in Davids town
    A Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.

  Behold the babe is swathed, and laid
    Within a manger. Straight there stood
  Beside the angel all arrayed
    A heavenly multitude.

  Glory to God, they sang; and peace,
    Good pleasure among men.
  The wondrous message of release!
    Glory to God again!

  Hush! Hark! the waits, far up the street!
    A distant, ghostly charm unfolds,
  Of magic music wild and sweet,
    Anomes and clarigolds.

                     JOHN DAVIDSON.

A CHRISTMAS CAROL

  What sweeter music can we bring
  Than a carol, for to sing
  The birth of this our heavenly King?
  Awake the voice! awake the string!
  Heart, ear, and eye, and everything!

  Dark and dull night, fly hence away,
  And give the honour to this day,
  That sees December turned to May.

  If we may ask the reason, say,
  The why and wherefore all things here
  Seem like the spring-time of the year?

  Why does the chilling winters morn
  Smile, like a field beset with corn?
  Or smell, like to a mead new-shorn,
  Thus, on the sudden?

                      Come and see
  The cause, why things thus fragrant be.
  Tis He is born, whose quickening birth
  Gives light and lustre, public mirth,
  To heaven, and the under-earth.

  We see Him come, and know Him ours,
  Who with His sunshine and His showers
  Turns all the patient ground to flowers.

  The darling of the world is come,
  And fit it is we find a room
  To welcome Him. The nobler part
  Of all the house here, is the heart,
  Which we will give Him; and bequeath
  This holly, and this ivy wreath,
  To do Him honour; whos our King,
  And Lord of all this revelling.

                    ROBERT HERRICK.

A CHILDS PRESENT TO HIS CHILD-SAVIOUR

  Go, pretty child, and bear this flower
  Unto thy little Saviour;
  And tell Him, by that bud now blown,
  He is the Rose of Sharon known;
  When thou hast said so, stick it there
  Upon his bib, or stomacher;
  And tell Him, for good handsel[23] too,
  That thou hast brought a whistle new,
  Made of a clean straight oaten reed,
  To charm his cries at time of need.
  Tell Him, for coral thou hast none;
  But if thou hadst, He should have one;
  But poor thou art, and known to be
  Even as moneyless, as He.
  Lastly, if thou canst win a kiss
  From those mellifluous lips of His,
  Then never take a second on,
  To spoil the first impression.

                    ROBERT HERRICK.

[23] _handsel_: a gift for good luck.

THE PEACE-GIVER

  Thou whose birth on earth
    Angels sang to men,
  While thy stars made mirth,
  Saviour, at thy birth.
    This day born again;

  As this night was bright
    With thy cradle-ray,
  Very light of light,
  Turn the wild worlds night
    To thy perfect day.

  Thou the Word and Lord
    In all time and space
  Heard, beheld, adored,
  With all ages poured
    Forth before thy face,

  Lord, what worth in earth
    Drew thee down to die?
  What therein was worth,
  Lord, thy death and birth?
    What beneath thy sky?

  Thou whose face gives grace
    As the suns doth heat,
  Let thy sunbright face
  Lighten time and space
    Here beneath thy feet.

  Bid our peace increase,
    Thou that madest morn;
  Bid oppression cease;
  Bid the night be peace;
    Bid the day be born.

                   A. C. SWINBURNE.

VARIOUS

TO A SINGER

  My soul is an enchanted boat,
    Which, like a sleeping swan, doth float
  Upon the silver waves of thy sweet singing;
    And thine doth like an angel sit
    Beside the helm conducting it,
  Whilst all the winds with melody are ringing.
    It seems to float ever, for ever,
    Upon that many-winding river,
    Between mountains, woods, abysses,
    A paradise of wildernesses!
  Till, like one in slumber bound,
  Borne to the ocean, I float down, around,
  Into a sea profound, of ever-spreading sound.
    Meanwhile thy spirit lifts its pinions
    In musics most serene dominions;
  Catching the winds that fan that happy heaven.
    And we sail on, away, afar,
    Without a course, without a star,
  But by the instinct of sweet music driven;
    Till through Elysian garden islets
    By thee, most beautiful of pilots,
    Where never mortal pinnace glided,
    The boat of my desire is guided:
  Realms where the air we breathe is love,
  Which in the winds on the waves doth move,
  Harmonizing this earth with what we feel above.

                     P. B. SHELLEY.

THE HAPPY PIPER

  Piping down the valleys wild,
    Piping songs of pleasant glee,
  On a cloud I saw a child,
    And he laughing said to me:

  Pipe a song about a Lamb!
    So I piped with merry cheer.
  Piper, pipe that song again;
    So I piped: he wept to hear.

  Drop thy pipe, thy happy pipe;
    Sing thy songs of happy cheer!
  So I sang the same again,
    While he wept with joy to hear.

  Piper, sit thee down and write
    In a book that all may read.
  So he vanishd from my sight,
    And I pluckd a hollow reed,

  And I made a rural pen,
    And I staind the water clear,
  And I wrote my happy songs
    Every child may joy to hear.

                     WILLIAM BLAKE.

THE DESTRUCTION OF SENNACHERIB

  The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold,
  And his cohorts were gleaming in purple and gold;
  And the sheen of their spears was like stars on the sea,
  When the blue wave rolls nightly on deep Galilee.

  Like the leaves of the forest when Summer is green,
  That host with their banners at sunset were seen:
  Like the leaves of the forest when Autumn hath blown,
  That host on the morrow lay witherd and strown.

  For the Angel of Death spread his wings on the blast,
  And breathed in the face of the foe as he passed;
  And the eyes of the sleepers waxed deadly and chill,
  And their hearts but once heaved, and for ever grew still!

  And there lay the steed with his nostril all wide,
  But through it there rolled not the breath of his pride:
  And the foam of his gasping lay white on the turf,
  And cold as the spray of the rock-beating surf.

  And there lay the rider distorted and pale,
  With the dew on his brow and the rust on his mail;
  And the tents were all silent, the banners alone,
  The lances unlifted, the trumpet unblown.

  And the widows of Ashur are loud in their wail,
  And the idols are broke in the temple of Baal;
  And the might of the Gentile, unsmote by the sword,
  Hath melted like snow in the glance of the Lord!

                        LORD BYRON.

_The next two spirited poems--both hailing from America--are inserted
with a view to their being useful to boys who have a taste for
recitation._

SHERIDANS RIDE

  Up from the south at break of day,
  Bringing to Winchester fresh dismay,
  The affrighted air with a shudder bore,
  Like a herald in haste, to the chieftains door,
  The terrible grumble and rumble and roar,
  Telling the battle was on once more--
  And Sheridan twenty miles away!

  And wilder still those billows of war
  Thundered along the horizons bar;
  And louder yet into Winchester rolled
  The roar of that red sea uncontrolled,
  Making the blood of the listener cold
  As he thought of the stake in that fiery fray,
  With Sheridan twenty miles away!

  But there is a road from Winchester town,
  A good broad highway leading down;
  And there, through the flash of the morning light,
  A steed, as black as the steeds of night,
  Was seen to pass as with eagle flight.
  As if he knew the terrible need,
  He stretched away with his utmost speed;
  Hills rose and fell, but his heart was gay,
  With Sheridan fifteen miles away!

  Still sprang from those swift hoofs, thundering south,
  The dust, like the smoke from the cannons mouth,
  Or the trail of a comet sweeping faster and faster,
  Foreboding to traitors the doom of disaster;
  The heart of the steed and the heart of the master
  Were beating like prisoners assaulting their walls,
  Impatient to be where the battle-field calls;
  Every nerve of the charger was strained to full play,
  With Sheridan only ten miles away!

  The first that the General saw was the groups
  Of stragglers, and then--the retreating troops!
  What was done--what to do--a glance told him both;
  And, striking his spurs, with a terrible oath
  He dashed down the line mid a storm of huzzahs,
  And the wave of retreat checked its course there, because
  The sight of the Master compelled it to pause.
  With foam and with dust the black charger was grey;
  By the flash of his eye and his red nostrils play
  He seemed to the whole great army to say
  I have brought you Sheridan, all the way
  From Winchester town to save the day!

  Hurrah, hurrah, for Sheridan!
  Hurrah, hurrah, for horse and man!
  And when their statues are placed on high
  Under the dome of the Union sky
  --The American soldiers Temple of Fame--
  There, with the glorious Generals name,
  Be it said in letters both bold and bright,
  Here is the steed that saved the day
  By carrying Sheridan into the fight,
  From Winchester--twenty miles away!

              THOMAS BUCHANAN READ.

COLUMBUS

  Behind him lay the gray Azores,
    Behind, the Gates of Hercules;
  Before him not the ghost of shores;
    Before him only shoreless seas.
  The good mate said: Now must we pray,
    For lo! the very stars are gone.
  Brave Admiral, speak; what shall I say?
    Why, say Sail on! sail on! and on!

  My men grow mutinous day by day;
    My men grow ghastly, wan and weak.
  The stout mate thought of home; a spray
    Of salt wave washed his swarthy cheek.
  What shall I say, brave Admiral, say,
    If we sight naught but seas at dawn?
  Why, you shall say at break of day:
    Sail on! sail on! sail on! and on!

  They sailed and sailed, as winds might blow,
    Until at last the blanched mate said:
  Why, now not even God would know
    Should I and all my men fall dead.
  These very winds forget their way,
    For God from these dread seas is gone.
  Now speak, brave Admiral, speak and say--
    He said: Sail on! sail on! and on!

  They sailed. They sailed. Then spake the mate:
    This mad sea shows his teeth to-night.
  He curls his lip, he lies in wait,
    He lifts his teeth as if to bite!
  Brave Admiral, say but one good word:
    What shall we do when hope is gone?
  The words leapt like a leaping sword:
    Sail on! sail on! sail on! and on!

  Then, pale and worn, he paced his deck,
    And peered through darkness. Ah, that night
  Of all dark nights! And then a speck--
    A light! A light! At last a light!
  It grew, a starlit flag unfurled!
    It grew to be Times burst of dawn.
  He gained a world; he gave that world
    Its grandest lesson: On! sail on!

                    JOAQUIN MILLER.

_Macaulays Lays of Ancient Rome, of which this is the first,
deal only with the legends that Rome in her greatness liked to tell
concerning her early beginnings. Unfortunately there is no similar
group of poems treating of Imperial Rome, the centre of a world-empire;
but children must please not think of the Mistress of the World purely
as a little riverside town which could free itself from outside trouble
by chopping down a wooden bridge._

HORATIUS

  Lars Porsena of Clusium
    By the Nine Gods he swore
  That the great house of Tarquin
    Should suffer wrong no more.
  By the Nine Gods he swore it,
    And named a trysting day,
  And bade his messengers ride forth
  East and west and south and north
    To summon his array.

  East and west and south and north
    The messengers ride fast,
  And tower and town and cottage
    Have heard the trumpets blast.
  Shame on the false Etruscan
    Who lingers in his home,
  When Porsena of Clusium
    Is on the march for Rome.

  The horsemen and the footmen
    Are pouring in amain
  From many a stately market-place,
    From many a fruitful plain;
  From many a lonely hamlet
    Which, hid by beech and pine,
  Like an eagles nest hangs on the crest
    Of purple Apennine;

  From lordly Volaterr,
    Where scowls the far-famed hold
  Piled by the hands of giants
    For godlike kings of old;
  From sea-girt Populonia
    Whose sentinels descry
  Sardinias snowy mountain-tops
    Fringing the southern sky;

  From the proud mart of Pis,
    Queen of the western waves,
  Where ride Massilias triremes
    Heavy with fair-haired slaves;
  From where sweet Clanis wanders
    Through corn and vines and flowers;
  From where Cortona lifts to heaven
    Her diadem of towers.

  Tall are the oaks whose acorns
    Drop in dark Ausers rill;
  Fat are the stags that champ the boughs
    Of the Ciminian hill;
  Beyond all streams Clitumnus
    Is to the herdsman dear;
  Best of all pools the fowler loves
    The great Volsinian mere.

  But now no stroke of woodman
    Is heard by Ausers rill;
  No hunter tracks the stags green path
    Up the Ciminian hill;
  Unwatched along Clitumnus
    Grazes the milk-white steer;
  Unharmed the water-fowl may dip
    In the Volsinian mere.

  The harvests of Arretium
    This year old men shall reap;
  This year young boys in Umbro
    Shall plunge the struggling sheep;
  And in the vats of Luna
    This year the must[24] shall foam
  Round the white feet of laughing girls
    Whose sires have marched to Rome.

  There be thirty chosen prophets,
    The wisest of the land,
  Who always by Lars Porsena
    Both morn and evening stand:
  Evening and morn the Thirty
    Have turned the verses oer,
  Traced from the right on linen white
    By mighty Seers of yore.

  And with one voice the Thirty
    Have their glad answer given:
  Go forth, go forth, Lars Porsena;
    Go forth, beloved of Heaven;
  Go, and return in glory
    To Clusiums royal dome,
  And hang round Nurscias altars
    The golden shields of Rome.

  And now hath every city
    Sent up her tale of men;
  The foot are fourscore thousand,
    The horse are thousands ten.
  Before the gates of Sutrium
    Is met the great array.
  A proud man was Lars Porsena
    Upon the trysting day!

  For all the Etruscan armies
    Were ranged beneath his eye,
  And many a banished Roman,
    And many a stout ally;
  And with a mighty following
    To join the muster came
  The Tusculan Mamilius,
    Prince of the Latian name.

  But by the yellow Tiber
    Was tumult and affright:
  From all the spacious champaign
    To Rome men took their flight.
  A mile around the city
    The throng stopped up the ways;
  A fearful sight it was to see,
    Through two long nights and days.

  For agd folk on crutches,
    And women great with child,
  And mothers sobbing over babes
    That clung to them and smiled,
  And sick men borne in litters
    High on the necks of slaves,
  And troops of sun-burned husbandmen
    With reaping-hooks and staves,

  And droves of mules and asses
    Laden with skins of wine,
  And endless flocks of goats and sheep,
    And endless herds of kine,
  And endless trains of waggons
    That creaked beneath the weight
  Of corn-sacks and of household goods,
    Choked every roaring gate.

  Now from the rock Tarpeian
    Could the wan burghers spy
  The line of blazing villages
    Red in the midnight sky.
  The Fathers of the City,
    They sat all night and day,
  For every hour some horseman came
    With tidings of dismay.

  To eastward and to westward
    Have spread the Tuscan bands;
  Nor house, nor fence, nor dovecote
    In Crustumerium stands.
  Verbenna down to Ostia
    Hath wasted all the plain;
  Astur hath stormed Janiculum,
    And the stout guards are slain.

  I wis, in all the Senate
    There was no heart so bold
  But sore it ached, and fast it beat,
    When that ill news was told.
  Forthwith up rose the Consul,
    Up rose the Fathers all;
  In haste they girded up their gowns,
    And hied them to the wall.

  They held a council standing
    Before the River-Gate;
  Short time was there, ye well may guess,
    For musing or debate.
  Out spake the Consul roundly:
    The bridge must straight go down;
  For, since Janiculum is lost,
    Nought else can save the town.

  Just then a scout came flying,
    All wild with haste and fear:
  To arms! to arms! Sir Consul:
    Lars Porsena is here.
  On the low hills to westward
    The Consul fixed his eye,
  And saw the swarthy storm of dust
    Rise fast along the sky.

  And nearer fast and nearer
    Doth the red whirlwind come;
  And louder still and still more loud
  From underneath that rolling cloud
  Is heard the trumpets war-note proud,
    The trampling, and the hum.
  And plainly and more plainly
    Now through the gloom appears,
  Far to left and far to right,
  In broken gleams of dark-blue light,
  The long array of helmets bright,
    The long array of spears.

  And plainly and more plainly
    Above that glimmering line
  Now might ye see the banners
    Of twelve fair cities shine;
  But the banner of proud Clusium
    Was highest of them all,
  The terror of the Umbrian,
  The terror of the Gaul.

  And plainly and more plainly
    Now might the burghers know,
  By port and vest, by horse and crest,
  Each warlike Lucumo[25].
  There Cilnius of Arretium
    On his fleet roan was seen;
  And Astur of the fourfold shield,
  Girt with the brand none else may wield,
  Tolumnius with the belt of gold,
  And dark Verbenna from the hold
    By reedy Thrasymene.

  Fast by the royal standard
    Oerlooking all the war,
  Lars Porsena of Clusium
    Sate in his ivory car.
  By the right wheel rode Mamilius,
    Prince of the Latian name;
  And by the left false Sextus,
    That wrought the deed of shame.

  But when the face of Sextus
    Was seen among the foes,
  A yell that rent the firmament
    From all the town arose.
  On the house-tops was no woman
    But spat towards him, and hissed;
  No child but screamed out curses,
    And shook its little fist.

  But the Consuls brow was sad,
    And the Consuls speech was low,
  And darkly looked he at the wall,
    And darkly at the foe.
  Their van will be upon us
    Before the bridge goes down;
  And if they once may win the bridge,
    What hope to save the town?

  Then out spake brave Horatius,
    The Captain of the gate:
  To every man upon this earth
    Death cometh soon or late;
  And how can man die better
    Than facing fearful odds
  For the ashes of his fathers
    And the temples of his Gods,

  And for the tender mother
    Who dandled him to rest,
  And for the wife who nurses
    His baby at her breast,
  And for the holy maidens
    Who feed the eternal flame,
  To save them from false Sextus
    That wrought the deed of shame?

  Hew down the bridge, Sir Consul,
    With all the speed ye may;
  I, with two more to help me,
    Will hold the foe in play.
  In yon strait path a thousand
    May well be stopped by three:
  Now who will stand on either hand,
    And keep the bridge with me?

  Then out spake Spurius Lartius,
    A Ramnian proud was he:
  Lo, I will stand at thy right hand,
    And keep the bridge with thee.
  And out spake strong Herminius,
    Of Titian blood was he:
  I will abide on thy left side,
    And keep the bridge with thee.

  Horatius, quoth the Consul,
    As thou sayest, so let it be.
  And straight against that great array
    Forth went the dauntless Three.
  For Romans in Romes quarrel
    Spared neither land nor gold,
  Nor son nor wife, nor limb nor life
    In the brave days of old.

  Then none was for a party;
    Then all were for the State;
  Then the great man helped the poor,
    And the poor man loved the great;
  Then lands were fairly portioned;
    Then spoils were fairly sold;
  The Romans were like brothers
    In the brave days of old.

  Now Roman is to Roman
    More hateful than a foe,
  And the Tribunes beard the high,
    And the Fathers grind the low.
  As we wax hot in faction,
    In battle we wax cold:
  Wherefore men fight not as they fought
    In the brave days of old.

  Now while the Three were tightening
    Their harness on their backs,
  The Consul was the foremost man
    To take in hand an axe:
  And Fathers mixed with Commons
    Seized hatchet, bar, and crow,
  And smote upon the planks above,
    And loosed the props below.

  Meanwhile the Tuscan army,
    Right glorious to behold,
  Came flashing back the noonday light,
  Rank behind rank, like surges bright
    Of a broad sea of gold.
  Four hundred trumpets sounded
    A peal of warlike glee,
  As that great host, with measured tread,
  And spears advanced, and ensigns spread,
  Rolled slowly towards the bridges head,
    Where stood the dauntless Three.

  The Three stood calm and silent,
    And looked upon the foes,
  And a great shout of laughter
    From all the vanguard rose:
  And forth three chiefs came spurring
    Before that deep array;
  To earth they sprang, their swords they drew,
  And lifted high their shields, and flew
    To win the narrow way;

  Aunus from green Tifernum,
    Lord of the Hill of Vines;
  And Seius, whose eight hundred slaves
    Sicken in Ilvas mines;
  And Picus, long to Clusium
    Vassal in peace and war,
  Who led to fight his Umbrian powers
  From that grey crag where, girt with towers,
  The fortress of Nequinum lowers
    Oer the pale waves of Nar.

  Stout Lartius hurled down Aunus
    Into the stream beneath:
  Herminius struck at Seius,
    And clove him to the teeth:
  At Picus brave Horatius
    Darted one fiery thrust,
  And the proud Umbrians gilded arms
    Clashed in the bloody dust.

  Then Ocnus of Falerii
    Rushed on the Roman Three;
  And Lausulus of Urgo,
    The rover of the sea;
  And Aruns of Volsinium,
    Who slew the great wild boar,
  The great wild boar that had his den
  Amidst the reeds of Cosas fen,
  And wasted fields, and slaughtered men,
    Along Albinias shore.

  Herminius smote down Aruns:
    Lartius laid Ocnus low:
  Right to the heart of Lausulus
    Horatius sent a blow.
  Lie there, he cried, fell pirate!
    No more, aghast and pale,
  From Ostias walls the crowd shall mark
  The track of thy destroying bark.
  No more Campanias hinds shall fly
  To woods and caverns when they spy
    Thy thrice-accursed sail.

  But now no sound of laughter
    Was heard amongst the foes.
  A wild and wrathful clamour
    From all the vanguard rose.
  Six spears lengths from the entrance
    Halted that deep array,
  And for a space no man came forth
    To win the narrow way.

  But hark! the cry is Astur!
    And lo! the ranks divide;
  And the great Lord of Luna
    Comes with his stately stride.
  Upon his ample shoulders
    Clangs loud the fourfold shield,
  And in his hand he shakes the brand
    Which none but he can wield.

  He smiled on those bold Romans
    A smile serene and high;
  He eyed the flinching Tuscans,
    And scorn was in his eye.
  Quoth he, The she-wolfs litter
    Stand savagely at bay:
  But will ye dare to follow,
    If Astur clears the way?

  Then, whirling up his broadsword
    With both hands to the height,
  He rushed against Horatius,
    And smote with all his might.
  With shield and blade Horatius
    Right deftly turned the blow:
  The blow, though turned, came yet too nigh;
  It missed his helm, but gashed his thigh:
  The Tuscans raised a joyful cry
    To see the red blood flow.

  He reeled, and on Herminius
    He leaned one breathing-space;
  Then, like a wild cat mad with wounds,
    Sprang right at Asturs face.
  Through teeth, and skull, and helmet,
    So fierce a thrust he sped,
  The good sword stood a handbreadth out
    Behind the Tuscans head.

  And the great Lord of Luna
    Fell at that deadly stroke,
  As falls on Mount Alvernus
    A thunder-smitten oak:
  Far oer the crashing forest
    The giant arms lie spread;
  And the pale augurs, muttering low,
    Gaze on the blasted head.

  On Asturs throat Horatius
    Right firmly pressed his heel,
  And thrice and four times tugged amain,
    Ere he wrenched out the steel.
  And see, he cried, the welcome,
    Fair guests, that waits you here!
  What noble Lucumo comes next
    To taste our Roman cheer?

  But at his haughty challenge
    A sullen murmur ran,
  Mingled of wrath and shame and dread,
    Along that glittering van.
  There lacked not men of prowess,
    Nor men of lordly race;
  For all Etrurias noblest
    Were round the fatal place.

  But all Etrurias noblest
    Felt their hearts sink to see
  On the earth the bloody corpses,
    In the path the dauntless Three:
  And, from the ghastly entrance
    Where those bold Romans stood,
  All shrank, like boys who unaware,
  Ranging the woods to start a hare,
  Come to the mouth of the dark lair
  Where, growling low, a fierce old bear
    Lies amidst bones and blood.

  Was none who would be foremost
    To lead such dire attack;
  But those behind cried Forward!
    And those before cried Back!
  And backward now and forward
    Wavers the deep array;
  And on the tossing sea of steel,
  To and fro the standards reel;
  And the victorious trumpet-peal
    Dies fitfully away.

  Yet one man for one moment
    Strode out before the crowd;
  Well known was he to all the Three,
    And they gave him greeting loud.
  Now welcome, welcome, Sextus!
    Now welcome to thy home!
  Why dost thou stay, and turn away?
    Here lies the road to Rome.

  Thrice looked he at the city;
    Thrice looked he at the dead;
  And thrice came on in fury,
    And thrice turned back in dread:
  And, white with fear and hatred,
    Scowled at the narrow way
  Where, wallowing in a pool of blood,
    The bravest Tuscans lay.

  But meanwhile axe and lever
    Have manfully been plied;
  And now the bridge hangs tottering
    Above the boiling tide.
  Come back, come back, Horatius!
    Loud cried the Fathers all.
  Back, Lartius! back, Herminius!
    Back, ere the ruin fall!

  Back darted Spurius Lartius;
    Herminius darted back:
  And, as they passed, beneath their feet
    They felt the timbers crack.
  But, when they turned their faces,
    And on the farther shore
  Saw brave Horatius stand alone,
    They would have crossed once more.

  But with a crash like thunder
    Fell every loosened beam,
  And, like a dam the mighty wreck
    Lay right athwart the stream:
  And a long shout of triumph
    Rose from the walls of Rome,
  As to the highest turret-tops
    Was splashed the yellow foam.

  And, like a horse unbroken
    When first he feels the rein,
  The furious river struggled hard,
    And tossed his tawny mane;
  And burst the curb, and bounded,
    Rejoicing to be free;
  And whirling down, in fierce career,
  Battlement, and plank, and pier,
    Rushed headlong to the sea.

  Alone stood brave Horatius,
    But constant still in mind;
  Thrice thirty thousand foes before,
    And the broad flood behind.
  Down with him! cried false Sextus,
    With a smile on his pale face.
  Now yield thee, cried Lars Porsena,
    Now yield thee to our grace.

  Round turned he, as not deigning
    Those craven ranks to see;
  Nought spake he to Lars Porsena,
    To Sextus nought spake he;
  But he saw on Palatinus
    The white porch of his home;
  And he spake to the noble river
    That rolls by the towers of Rome.

  O Tiber! father Tiber!
    To whom the Romans pray,
  A Romans life, a Romans arms
    Take thou in charge this day!
  So he spake, and speaking sheathd
    The good sword by his side,
  And with his harness on his back
    Plunged headlong in the tide.

  No sound of joy or sorrow
    Was heard from either bank;
  But friends and foes in dumb surprise,
  With parted lips and straining eyes,
    Stood gazing where he sank;
  And when above the surges
    They saw his crest appear,
  All Rome sent forth a rapturous cry,
  And even the ranks of Tuscany
    Could scarce forbear to cheer.

  But fiercely ran the current,
    Swollen high by months of rain:
  And fast his blood was flowing;
    And he was sore in pain,
  And heavy with his armour,
    And spent with changing blows:
  And oft they thought him sinking,
    But still again he rose.

  Never, I ween, did swimmer,
    In such an evil case,
  Struggle through such a raging flood
    Safe to the landing-place:
  But his limbs were borne up bravely
    By the brave heart within,
  And our good father Tiber
    Bare bravely up his chin.

  Curse on him! quoth false Sextus;
    Will not the villain drown?
  But for this stay ere close of day
    We should have sacked the town!
  Heaven help him! quoth Lars Porsena,
    And bring him safe to shore;
  For such a gallant feat of arms
    Was never seen before.

  And now he feels the bottom;
    Now on dry earth he stands;
  Now round him throng the Fathers
    To press his gory hands;
  And now with shouts and clapping,
    And noise of weeping loud,
  He enters through the River-Gate,
    Borne by the joyous crowd.

  They gave him of the corn-land,
    That was of public right,
  As much as two strong oxen
    Could plough from morn till night;
  And they made a molten image,
    And set it up on high,
  And there it stands unto this day
    To witness if I lie.

  It stands in the Comitium
    Plain for all folk to see;
  Horatius in his harness,
    Halting upon one knee:
  And underneath is written,
    In letters all of gold,
  How valiantly he kept the bridge
    In the brave days of old.

  And still his name sounds stirring
    Unto the men of Rome,
  As the trumpet-blast that cries to them
    To charge the Volscian home;
  And wives still pray to Juno
    For boys with hearts as bold
  As his who kept the bridge so well
    In the brave days of old.

  And in the nights of winter,
    When the cold north winds blow,
  And the long howling of the wolves
    Is heard amidst the snow;
  When round the lonely cottage
    Roars loud the tempests din,
  And the good logs of Algidus
    Roar louder yet within;

  When the oldest cask is opened,
    And the largest lamp is lit;
  When the chestnuts glow in the embers,
    And the kid turns on the spit;
  When young and old in circle
    Around the firebrands close;
  When the girls are weaving baskets,
    And the lads are shaping bows;

  When the goodman mends his armour
    And trims his helmets plume;
  When the goodwifes shuttle merrily
    Goes flashing through the loom;
  With weeping and with laughter
    Still is the story told,
  How well Horatius kept the bridge
    In the brave days of old.

                     LORD MACAULAY.

[24] _must_: grape-juice.

[25] _Lucumo_: Etruscan nobleman.

INDEX OF AUTHORS

                                        PAGE

INDEX OF FIRST LINES

                                                           PAGE

  Do you know what the birds say? The sparrow,

Cambridge:

PRINTED BY JOHN CLAY, M.A. AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS

The Cambridge Book of Poetry for Children

PART II

CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS

C. F. CLAY, MANAGER

  London: FETTER LANE, E.C.
  Edinburgh: 100 PRINCES STREET

  Bombay, Calcutta and Madras: MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD.
  Toronto: J. M. DENT AND SONS, LTD.
  Tokyo: THE MARUZEN-KABUSHIKI-KAISHA

  Copyrighted in the United States of America by
  G. P. PUTNAMS SONS,
  2, 4 AND 6, WEST 45TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY

  _All rights reserved_

The Cambridge Book of Poetry for Children

  Edited by
  KENNETH GRAHAME

  Author of _The Golden Age_, _Dream Days_, _The Wind
  in the Willows_, _etc._

PART II

  Cambridge:
  at the University Press

NOTE

The Editor has to express his thanks for permission to use copyright
matter to the Editor of _A Sailors Garland_ and its publishers, Messrs
Methuen, to Mr Elkin Mathews for the poem by Richard Hovey, to Messrs
G. Routledge & Sons for a poem by Joaquin Miller.

CONTENTS

  PAGE

  NATURE, COUNTRY AND THE OPEN AIR

  GREEN SEAS AND SAILOR MEN

  1. _The Call of the Sea_

  2. _Its Lawless Joys_
     The Salcombe Seamans Flaunt to the

  ARMS AND THE MAN

  THE OTHER SIDE OF IT

  STORY-POEMS

  DAY-DREAMS

  TWO HOME-COMINGS

    1. The Good Woman Made Welcome in

  WHEN KNIGHTS WERE BOLD

  VARIOUS

NATURE, COUNTRY, AND THE OPEN AIR

TO MEADOWS

  Ye have been fresh and green,
    Ye have been filld with flowers;
  And ye the walks have been
    Where maids have spent their hours.

  You have beheld how they
    With wicker arks did come
  To kiss and bear away
    The richer cowslips home.

  Youve heard them sweetly sing,
    And seen them in a round:
  Each virgin like a spring,
    With honeysuckles crownd.

  But now we see none here
    Whose silvry feet did tread
  And with dishevelled hair
    Adornd this smoother mead.

  Like unthrifts, having spent
    Your stock, and needy grown,
  Youre left here to lament
    Your poor estates, alone.

                    ROBERT HERRICK.

THE BROOK

  I come from haunts of coot and hern[26],
    I make a sudden sally,
  And sparkle out among the fern,
    To bicker down a valley.

  By thirty hills I hurry down,
    Or slip between the ridges,
  By twenty thorps[27], a little town,
    And half a hundred bridges.

  I chatter over stony ways
    In little sharps and trebles,
  I bubble into eddying bays,
    I babble on the pebbles.

  With many a curve my banks I fret
    By many a field and fallow,
  And many a fairy foreland set
    With willow-weed and mallow.

  I chatter, chatter, as I flow
    To join the brimming river,
  For men may come and men may go,
    But I go on for ever.

  I wind about and in and out,
    With here a blossom sailing,
  And here and there a lusty trout,
    And here and there a grayling.

  And here and there a foamy flake
    Upon me, as I travel
  With many a silvery waterbreak
    Above the golden gravel.

  I steal by lawns and grassy plots,
    I slide by hazel covers;
  I move the sweet forget-me-nots
    That grow for happy lovers.

  I slip, I slide, I gloom, I glance,
    Among my skimming swallows;
  I make the netted sunbeam dance
    Against my sandy shallows.

  I murmur under moon and stars
    In brambly wildernesses;
  I linger by my shingly bars;
    I loiter round my cresses;

  And out again I curve and flow
    To join the brimming river,
  For men may come and men may go,
    But I go on for ever.

             ALFRED, LORD TENNYSON.

[26] _hern_: heron.

[27] _thorps_: villages.

RECOLLECTIONS OF EARLY CHILDHOOD

  There was a time when meadow, grove, and stream,
    The earth, and every common sight,
      To me did seem
    Apparelld in celestial light,
  The glory and the freshness of a dream.
  It is not now as it hath been of yore;--
    Turn wheresoeer I may,
        By night or day,
  The things which I have seen I now can see no more.

    The rainbow comes and goes,
    And lovely is the rose;
    The moon doth with delight
  Look round her when the heavens are bare;
      Waters on a starry night
      Are beautiful and fair;
    The sunshine is a glorious birth;
    But yet I know, whereer I go,
  That there hath passed away a glory from the earth.

  Now, while the birds thus sing a joyous song,
    And while the young lambs bound
    As to the tabors sound,
  To me alone there came a thought of grief:
  A timely utterance gave that thought relief,
        And I again am strong.
  The cataracts blow their trumpets from the steep;
    No more shall grief of mine the season wrong;
    I hear the echoes through the mountains throng,
  The winds come to me from the fields of sleep,
      And all the earth is gay;
        Land and sea
    Give themselves up to jollity,
      And with the heart of May
    Doth every beast keep holiday;--
        Thou Child of Joy,
  Shout round me, let me hear thy shouts, thou happy Shepherd-boy!

  Ye blessed creatures, I have heard the call
    Ye to each other make; I see
  The heavens laugh with you in your jubilee;
    My heart is at your festival,
    My head hath its coronal,
  The fulness of your bliss, I feel--I feel it all.
      O evil day! if I were sullen
        While Earth herself is adorning,
        This sweet May morning,
      And the children are culling
        On every side,
    In a thousand valleys far and wide,

  Fresh flowers; while the sun shines warm,
  And the babe leaps up on his mothers arm:--
    I hear, I hear, with joy I hear!
    --But theres a tree, of many one,
  A single field which I have lookd upon,
  Both of them speak of something that is gone:
      The pansy at my feet
      Doth the same tale repeat:
  Whither is fled the visionary gleam?
  Where is it now, the glory and the dream?

  Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting:
  The Soul that rises with us, our lifes Star,
      Hath had elsewhere its setting,
        And cometh from afar:
      Not in entire forgetfulness,
      And not in utter nakedness,
  But trailing clouds of glory do we come
      From God, who is our home:
  Heaven lies about us in our infancy!
  Shades of the prison-house begin to close
      Upon the growing Boy,
  But he beholds the light, and whence it flows,
    He sees it in his joy;
  The Youth, who daily further from the east
    Must travel, still is Natures priest,
      And by the vision splendid
      Is on his way attended;
  At length the man perceives it die away,
  And fade into the light of common day.

         *       *       *       *       *

                WILLIAM WORDSWORTH.

(_This is only a portion of the poem, which later you should take an
opportunity of reading as a whole._)

TO AUTUMN

  Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness!
    Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun;
  Conspiring with him how to load and bless
    With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eaves run;
  To bend with apples the mossd cottage-trees,
    And fill all fruit with ripeness to the core;
    To swell the gourd, and plump the hazel shells
    With a sweet kernel; to set budding more,
  And still more, later flowers for the bees,
  Until they think warm days will never cease,
    For Summer has oer-brimmd their clammy cells.

  Who hath not seen Thee oft amid thy store?
    Sometimes whoever seeks abroad may find
  Thee sitting careless on a granary floor,
    Thy hair soft-lifted by the winnowing wind;
  Or on a half-reapd furrow sound asleep,
    Drowsed with the fume of poppies, while thy hook
      Spares the next swath and all its twind flowers;
  And sometimes like a gleaner thou dost keep
    Steady thy laden head across a brook;
    Or by a cider-press, with patient look,
      Thou watchest the last oozings hours by hours.

  Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?
    Think not of them, thou hast thy music too,--
  While barrd clouds bloom the soft-dying day,
    And touch the stubble-plains with rosy hue;
  Then in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn
    Among the river sallows[28], borne aloft
      Or sinking as the light wind lives or dies;
  And full-grown lambs loud bleat from hilly bourn[29];
    Hedge-crickets sing; and now with treble soft
    The redbreast whistles from a garden-croft[30];
      And gathering swallows twitter in the skies.

                        JOHN KEATS.

[28] _sallows_: willows.

[29] _bourn_: stream, water-course.

[30] _croft_: enclosure.

ODE TO THE WEST WIND

I.

  O wild West Wind, thou breath of Autumns being,
  Thou from whose unseen presence the leaves dead
  Are driven, like ghosts from an enchanter fleeing,

  Yellow, and black, and pale, and hectic red,
    Pestilence-stricken multitudes! O thou
  Who chariotest to their dark wintry bed

    The wingd seeds, where they lie cold and low,
  Each like a corpse within its grave, until
    Thine azure sister of the Spring shall blow

  Her clarion oer the dreaming earth, and fill
    (Driving sweet buds like flocks to feed in air)
  With living hues and odours plain and hill:

  Wild Spirit, which art moving everywhere;
  Destroyer and preserver; hear, O hear!

II.

  Thou on whose stream, mid the steep skys commotion,
    Loose clouds like earths decaying leaves are shed,
  Shook from the tangled boughs of heaven and ocean,

    Angels of rain and lightning! there are spread
  On the blue surface of thine airy surge,
    Like the bright hair uplifted from the head

  Of some fierce Maenad[31], even from the dim verge
    Of the horizon to the zeniths height,
  The locks of the approaching storm. Thou dirge

    Of the dying year, to which this closing night
  Will be the dome of a vast sepulchre,
    Vaulted with all thy congregated might

  Of vapours, from whose solid atmosphere
  Black rain, and fire, and hail, will burst: O hear!

III.

  Thou who didst waken from his summer dreams
    The blue Mediterranean, where he lay,
  Lulld by the coil[32] of his crystalline streams,

    Beside a pumice[33] isle in Baiaes bay,
  And saw in sleep old palaces and towers
    Quivering within the waves intenser day,

  All overgrown with azure moss, and flowers
    So sweet, the sense faints picturing them! Thou
  For whose path the Atlantics level powers

    Cleave themselves into chasms, while far below
  The sea-blooms and the oozy woods which wear
    The sapless foliage of the ocean, know

  Thy voice, and suddenly grow grey with fear,
  And tremble and despoil themselves: O hear!

IV.

  If I were a dead leaf thou mightest bear;
    If I were a swift cloud to fly with thee;
  A wave to pant beneath thy power, and share

    The impulse of thy strength, only less free
  Than thou, O uncontrollable! if even
    I were as in my boyhood, and could be

  The comrade of thy wanderings over heaven,
    As then, when to outstrip thy skiey speed
  Scarce seemd a vision--I would neer have striven

    As thus with thee in prayer in my sore need.
  O! lift me as a wave, a leaf, a cloud!
    I fall upon the thorns of life! I bleed!

  A heavy weight of years has chaind and bowd
  One too like thee--tameless, and swift, and proud.

V.

  Make me thy lyre, even as the forest is:
    What if my leaves are falling like its own?
  The tumult of thy mighty harmonies

    Will take from both a deep autumnal tone,
  Sweet though in sadness. Be thou, Spirit fierce,
    My spirit! Be thou me, impetuous one!

  Drive my dead thoughts over the universe,
    Like witherd leaves, to quicken a new birth;
  And, by the incantation of this verse,

    Scatter, as from an unextinguishd hearth
  Ashes and sparks, my words among mankind!
    Be through my lips to unawakend earth

  The trumpet of a prophecy! O Wind,
  If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?

              PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY.

[31] _Maenad_: a priestess of Bacchus, the wine-god.

[32] _coil_: confused noise, murmur.

[33] _pumice_: formed of volcanic lava.

TO A SKYLARK

        Hail to thee, blithe spirit!
          Bird thou never wert--
        That from heaven or near it
          Pourest thy full heart
  In profuse strains of unpremeditated art.

        Higher still and higher
          From the earth thou springest
        Like a cloud of fire;
          The blue deep thou wingest,
  And singing still dost soar, and soaring ever singest.

        In the golden lightning
          Of the sunken sun,
        Oer which clouds are brightning,
          Thou dost float and run,
  Like an unbodied joy whose race is just begun.

        The pale purple even
          Melts around thy flight;
        Like a star of heaven,
          In the broad daylight
  Thou art unseen, but yet I hear thy shrill delight.

        Keen as are the arrows
          Of that silver sphere,
        Whose intense lamp narrows
          In the white dawn clear,
  Until we hardly see, we feel that it is there.

        All the earth and air
          With thy voice is loud,
        As, when night is bare,
          From one lonely cloud
  The moon rains out her beams, and heaven is overflowd.

        What thou art we know not;
          What is most like thee?
        From rainbow clouds there flow not
          Drops so bright to see,
  As from thy presence showers a rain of melody:--

        Like a poet hidden
          In the light of thought,
        Singing hymns unbidden,
          Till the world is wrought
  To sympathy with hopes and fears it heeded not:

        Like a high-born maiden
          In a palace tower,
        Soothing her love-laden
          Soul in secret hour
  With music sweet as love, which overflows her bower:

        Like a glow-worm golden
          In a dell of dew,
        Scattering unbeholden
          Its arial hue
  Among the flowers and grass which screen it from the view:

        Like a rose embowerd
          In its own green leaves,
        By warm winds deflowerd,
          Till the scent it gives
  Makes faint with too much sweet these heavy-wingd thieves:

        Sound of vernal showers
          On the twinkling grass,
        Rain-awakend flowers--
          All that ever was
  Joyous and clear and fresh--thy music doth surpass.

        Teach us, sprite or bird,
          What sweet thoughts are thine:
        I have never heard
          Praise of love or wine
  That panted forth a flood of rapture so divine.

        Chorus hymeneal
          Or triumphal chant,
        Matchd with thine would be all
          But an empty vaunt--
  A thing wherein we feel there is some hidden want.

        What objects are the fountains
          Of thy happy strain?
        What fields, or waves, or mountains?
          What shapes of sky or plain?
  What love of thine own kind? what ignorance of pain?

        With thy clear keen joyance
          Languor cannot be:
        Shadow of annoyance
          Never came near thee:
  Thou lovest, but neer knew loves sad satiety.

        Waking or asleep,
          Thou of death must deem
        Things more true and deep
          Than we mortals dream,
  Or how could thy notes flow in such a crystal stream?

        We look before and after,
          And pine for what is not:
        Our sincerest laughter
          With some pain is fraught;
  Our sweetest songs are those that tell of saddest thought.

        Yet if we could scorn
          Hate and pride and fear,
        If we were things born
          Not to shed a tear,
  I know not how thy joy we ever should come near.

        Better than all measures
          Of delightful sound,
        Better than all treasures
          That in books are found,
  Thy skill to poet were, thou scorner of the ground!

        Teach me half the gladness
          That thy brain must know;
        Such harmonious madness
          From my lips would flow,
  The world should listen then, as I am listening now.

              PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY.

THE MOON-GODDESS

  Queen and huntress, chaste and fair,
    Now the sun is laid to sleep,
  Seated in thy silver chair,
    State in wonted manner keep:
      Hesperus entreats thy light,
      Goddess excellently bright.

  Earth, let not thy envious shade
    Dare itself to interpose;
  Cynthias shining orb was made
    Heaven to clear when day did close:
      Bless us then with wishd sight,
      Goddess excellently bright.

  Lay thy bow of pearl apart,
    And thy crystal-shining quiver;
  Give unto the flying hart
    Space to breathe, how short soever:
      Thou that makst a day of night--
      Goddess excellently bright.

                        BEN JONSON.

HOME-THOUGHTS FROM ABROAD

  O, to be in England
  Now that Aprils there,
  And whoever wakes in England
  Sees, some morning, unaware,
  That the lowest boughs and the brushwood sheaf
  Round the elm-tree bole are in tiny leaf,
  While the chaffinch sings on the orchard bough
  In England--now!

  And after April, when May follows,
  And the white throat builds, and all the swallows!
  Hark, where my blossomd pear-tree in the hedge
  Leans to the field and scatters on the clover
  Blossoms and dewdrops--at the bent sprays edge--
  Thats the wise thrush; he sings each song twice over,

  Lest you should think he never could recapture
  The first fine careless rapture!
  And though the fields look rough with hoary dew,
  All will be gay when noontide wakes anew
  The buttercups, the little childrens dower
  --Far brighter than this gaudy melon-flower!

                   ROBERT BROWNING.

HOME-THOUGHTS FROM THE SEA

  Nobly, nobly Cape Saint Vincent to the North-west died away;
  Sunset ran, one glorious blood-red, reeking into Cadiz Bay;
  Bluish mid the burning water, full in face Trafalgar lay;
  In the dimmest North-east distance dawnd Gibraltar grand and gray;
  Here and here did England help me: how can I help England?--say,
  Whoso turns as I, this evening, turn to God to praise and pray,
  While Joves planet rises yonder, silent over Africa.

                   ROBERT BROWNING.

GREEN SEAS AND SAILOR MEN

1. _The Call of the Sea_

YE MARINERS OF ENGLAND

  Ye Mariners of England!
    That guard our native seas;
  Whose flag has braved a thousand years
    The battle and the breeze!
  Your glorious standard launch again
    To match another foe;
  And sweep through the deep,
    While the stormy winds do blow!
  While the battle rages loud and long,
    And the stormy winds do blow.

  The spirits of your fathers
    Shall start from every wave;
  For the deck it was their field of fame,
    And Ocean was their grave:
  Where Blake and mighty Nelson fell
    Your manly hearts shall glow,
  As ye sweep through the deep,
    While the stormy winds do blow!
  While the battle rages loud and long,
    And the stormy winds do blow.

  Britannia needs no bulwarks,
    No towers along the steep;
  Her march is oer the mountain-waves,
    Her home is on the deep.
  With thunders from her native oak
    She quells the floods below,
  As they roar on the shore,
    When the stormy winds do blow!
  When the battle rages loud and long,
    And the stormy winds do blow.

  The meteor flag of England
    Shall yet terrific burn;
  Till dangers troubled night depart
    And the star of peace return.
  Then, then, ye ocean-warriors!
    Our song and feast shall flow
  To the fame of your name,
    When the storm has ceased to blow!
  When the fiery fight is heard no more,
    And the storm has ceased to blow.

                   THOMAS CAMPBELL.

THE SECRET OF THE SEA

  Ah! what pleasant visions haunt me
    As I gaze upon the sea!
  All the old romantic legends,
    All my dreams come back to me.

  Sails of silk and ropes of sendal[34],
    Such as gleam in ancient lore;
  And the singing of the sailors,
    And the answer from the shore!

  Most of all, the Spanish ballad
    Haunts me oft, and tarries long,
  Of the noble Count Arnaldos
    And the sailors mystic song.

  Telling how the Count Arnaldos,
    With his hawk upon his hand,
  Saw a fair and stately galley,
    Steering onward to the land;--

  How he heard the ancient helmsman
    Chant a song so wild and clear,
  That the sailing sea-bird slowly
    Poised upon the mast to hear,

  Till his soul was full of longing,
    And he cried, with impulse strong,--
  Helmsman! for the love of heaven,
    Teach me, too, that wondrous song!

  Wouldst thou,--so the helmsman answered,
    Learn the secret of the sea?
  Only those who brave its dangers
    Comprehend its mystery!

  In each sail that skims the horizon,
    In each landward-blowing breeze,
  I behold that stately galley,
    Hear those mournful melodies.

  Till my soul is full of longing
    For the secret of the sea,
  And the heart of the great ocean
    Sends a thrilling pulse through me.

                  H. W. LONGFELLOW.

[34] _sendal_: coarse narrow silken material.

A DUTCH PICTURE

  Simon Danz has come home again,
    From cruising about with his buccaneers[35];
  He has singed the beard of the King of Spain,
  And carried away the Dean of Jaen,
    And sold him in Algiers.

  In his house by the Maese, with its roof of tiles,
    And weathercocks flying aloft in air,
  There are silver tankards in antique styles,
  Plunder of convent and castle, and piles
    Of carpets rich and rare.

  In his tulip-garden there by the town,
    Overlooking the sluggish stream,
  With his Moorish cap and dressing-gown,
  The old sea-captain, hale and brown,
    Walks in a waking dream.

  A smile in his gray mustachio lurks
    Whenever he thinks of the King of Spain,
  And the listed[36] tulips look like Turks,
  And the silent gardener as he works
    Is changed to the Dean of Jaen[37].

  The windmills on the outermost
    Verge of the landscape in the haze,
  To him are towers on the Spanish coast,
  With whiskered sentinels at their post,
    Though this is the river Maese.

  But when the winter rains begin,
    He sits and smokes by the blazing brands,
  And old seafaring men come in,
  Goat-bearded, gray, and with double chin,
    And rings upon their hands.

  They sit there in the shadow and shine
    Of the flickering fire of the winter night;
  Figures in colour and design
  Like those by Rembrandt of the Rhine,
    Half darkness and half light.

  And they talk of ventures lost or won,
    And their talk is ever and ever the same,
  While they drink the red wine of Tarragon,
  From the cellars of some Spanish Don,
    Or convent set on flame.

  Restless at times, with heavy strides
    He paces his parlour to and fro;
  He is like a ship that at anchor rides,
  And swings with the rising and falling tides,
    And tugs at her anchor-tow.

  Voices mysterious far and near,
    Sound of the wind and sound of the sea,
  Are calling and whispering in his ear,
  Simon Danz! Why stayest thou here?
    Come forth and follow me!

  So he thinks he shall take to the sea again
    For one more cruise with his buccaneers,
  To singe the beard of the King of Spain,
  And capture another Dean of Jaen,
    And sell him in Algiers.

                  H. W. LONGFELLOW.

[35] _buccaneers_: sea rovers, pirates.

[36] _listed_: striped.

[37] _Jaen_: a town in Spain.

SEA MEMORIES

  Often I think of the beautiful town
    That is seated by the sea;
  Often in thought go up and down
  The pleasant streets of that dear old town,
    And my youth comes back to me.
      And a verse of a Lapland song
      Is haunting my memory still:
      A boys will is the winds will,
  And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts.

  I can see the shadowy lines of its trees,
    And catch, in sudden gleams,
  The sheen of the far-surrounding seas,
    Of all my boyish dreams.
      And the burden of that old song,
      It murmurs and whispers still:
      A boys will is the winds will,
  And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts.

  I remember the black wharves and the slips,
    And the sea-tides tossing free;
  And the Spanish sailors with bearded lips,
  And the beauty and mystery of the ships,
    And the magic of the sea.
      And the voice of that wayward song
      Is singing and saying still:
      A boys will is the winds will,
  And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts.

                  H. W. LONGFELLOW.

[38] _Hesperides_: the fabulous Isles of the Blest in far
western seas.

THE SEA GYPSY

  I am feverd with the sunset,
  I am fretful with the bay,
  For the wander-thirst is on me
  And my soul is in Cathay.

  Theres a schooner in the offing,
  With her topsails shot with fire,
  And my heart has gone aboard her
  For the Islands of Desire.

  I must forth again to-morrow!
  With the sunset I must be
  Hull down on the trail of rapture
  In the wonder of the Sea.

                     RICHARD HOVEY.

THE GREENWICH PENSIONER

  Twas in the good ship _Rover_,
    I sailed the world all round,
  And for three years and over
    I neer touched British ground;
  At length in England landed,
    I left the roaring main,
  Found all relations stranded,
    And went to sea again,
    And went to sea again.

  That time bound straight for Portugal,
    Right fore and aft we bore,
  But when we made Cape Ortegal,
    A gale blew off the shore;
  She lay, so did it shock her,
    A log upon the main,
  Till, saved from Davys locker,
      We put to sea again,
      We put to sea again.

  Next sailing in a frigate
    I got my timber toe.
  I never more shall jig it
    As once I used to do;
  My leg was shot off fairly,
    All by a ship of Spain;
  But I could swab the galley,
      I went to sea again,
      I went to sea again.

  And still I am enabled
    To bring up in the rear,
  Although Im quite disabled
    And lie in Greenwich tier.
  Theres schooners in the river
    A riding to the chain,
  But I shall never, ever
      Put out to sea again,
      Put out to sea again.

         From _A Sailors Garland_.

THE PRESS-GANG

  Heres the tender[39] coming,
    Pressing all the men;
      O, dear honey,
    What shall we do then?
  Heres the tender coming,
    Off at Shields Bar.
  Heres the tender coming,
    Full of men of war.

  Heres the tender coming,
    Stealing of my dear;
      O, dear honey,
    Theyll ship you out of here,
  Theyll ship you foreign,
    For that is what it means.
  Heres the tender coming,
    Full of red marines.

         From _A Sailors Garland_.

[39] _tender_: a boat or other small vessel, that attends a ship
with men, stores, etc.

A SEA DIRGE

  Full fathom five thy father lies:
    Of his bones are coral made;
  Those are pearls that were his eyes:
    Nothing of him that doth fade,
  But doth suffer a sea-change
  Into something rich and strange.
  Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell:
  Hark! now I hear them,
            Ding, dong, bell.

                       SHAKESPEARE.

2. _Its Lawless Joys_

THE OLD BUCCANEER

  Oh England is a pleasant place for them thats rich and high,
  But England is a cruel place for such poor folks as I;
  And such a port for mariners I neer shall see again
  As the pleasant Isle of Avs, beside the Spanish main.

  There were forty craft in Avs that were both swift and stout,
  All furnished well with small arms and cannons round about;
  And a thousand men in Avs made laws so fair and free
  To choose their valiant captains and obey them loyally.

  Thence we sailed against the Spaniard with his hoards of plate
      and gold,
  Which he wrung with cruel tortures from Indian folk of old;
  Likewise the merchant captains, with hearts as hard as stone,
  Who flog men, and keel-haul them, and starve them to the bone.

  O the palms grew high in Avs, and fruits that shone like gold,
  And the colibris[40] and parrots they were gorgeous to behold;
  And the negro maids to Avs from bondage fast did flee,
  To welcome gallant sailors, a-sweeping in from sea.

  O sweet it was in Avs to hear the landward breeze,
  A-swing with good tobacco in a net between the trees,
  With a negro lass to fan you, while you listened to the roar
  Of the breakers on the reef outside, that never touched the shore.

  But Scripture saith, an ending to all fine things must be;
  So the Kings ships sailed on Avs, and quite put down were we.
  All day we fought like bulldogs, but they burst the booms at night;
  And I fled in a piragua[41], sore wounded, from the fight.

  Nine days I floated starving, and a negro lass beside,
  Till, for all I tried to cheer her, the poor young thing she died;
  But as I lay a-gasping, a Bristol sail came by,
  And brought me home to England here, to beg until I die.

  And now Im old and going--Im sure I cant tell where;
  One comfort is, this worlds so hard, I cant be worse off there:
  If I might but be a sea-dove, Id fly across the main,
  To the pleasant Isle of Avs, to look at it once again.

                  CHARLES KINGSLEY.

[40] _colibris_: humming-birds.

[41] _piragua_: a dug-out canoe.

THE SALCOMBE SEAMANS FLAUNT TO THE PROUD PIRATE

  A lofty ship from Salcombe came,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  She had golden trucks[42] that shone like flame,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  Masthead, masthead, the captains hail,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  Look out and round, dye see a sail?
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  Theres a ship that looms like Beachy Head,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  Her banner aloft it blows out red,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  Oh, ship ahoy, where do you steer?
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  Are you man-of-war, or privateer?
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  I am neither one of the two, said she,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  Im a pirate, looking for my fee,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  Im a jolly pirate, out for gold:
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  I will rummage through your after hold,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  The grumbling guns they flashed and roared,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  Till the pirates masts went overboard,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  They fired shots till the pirates deck,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  Was blood and spars and broken wreck,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  O do not haul the red flag down,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  O keep all fast until we drown,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  They called for cans of wine, and drank,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  They sang their songs until she sank,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  Now let us brew good cans of flip,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  And drink a bowl to the Salcombe ship,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

  And drink a bowl to the lad of fame,
    _Blow high, blow low, and so sailed we;_
  Who put the pirate ship to shame,
    _On the bonny coasts of Barbary_.

         From _A Sailors Garland_.

[42] _trucks_: mast-head caps.

THE SMUGGLER

  O my true loves a smuggler and sails upon the sea,
  And I would I were a seaman to go along with he;
  To go along with he for the satins and the wine,
  And run the tubs at Slapton when the stars do shine.

  O Hollands is a good drink when the nights are cold,
  And Brandy is a good drink for them as grows old.
  There is lights in the cliff-top when the boats are home-bound,
  And we run the tubs at Slapton when the word goes round.

  The King he is a proud man in his grand red coat,
  But I do love a smuggler in a little fishing-boat;
  For he runs the Mallins lace and he spends his money free,
  And I would I were a seaman to go along with he.

         From _A Sailors Garland_.

ARMS AND THE MAN

_The generations pass, each in its turn wondering whether it is to be
the one to see the ending of War and the awakening of the common sense
of nations. But the Poetry of the glory of Battle, the hymning of high
heroisms, the dirges for those who nobly died--these will remain, to
gild its memory, long after the last echo of the last war-drum has
faded out of the world._

THE MAID

  Thunder of riotous hoofs over the quaking sod;
  Clash of reeking squadrons, steel-capped, iron-shod;
  The White Maid and the white horse, and the flapping banner of God.

  Black hearts riding for money; red hearts riding for fame;
  The Maid who rides for France and the King who rides for shame--
  Gentlemen, fools, and a saint riding in Christs high name!

  Dust to dust! it is written. Wind-scattered are lance and bow.
  Dust, the Cross of Saint George; dust, the banner of snow.
  The bones of the King are crumbled, and rotted the shafts of the foe.

  Forgotten, the young knights valour; forgotten, the captains skill;
  Forgotten, the fear and the hate and the mailed hands raised to kill;
  Forgotten, the shields that clashed and the arrows that cried
      so shrill.

  Like a story from some old book, that battle of long ago:
  Shadows, the poor French King and the might of his English foe;
  Shadows, the charging nobles and the archers kneeling a-row--
  But a flame in my heart and my eyes, the Maid with her banner of snow!

                  THEODORE ROBERTS.

THE EVE OF WATERLOO

    There was a sound of revelry by night,
      And Belgiums capital had gatherd then
    Her Beauty and her Chivalry, and bright
      The lamps shone oer fair women and brave men.
    A thousand hearts beat happily; and when
      Music arose with its voluptuous swell,
    Soft eyes lookd love to eyes which spake again,
      And all went merry as a marriage-bell;
  But hush! hark! a deep sound strikes like a rising knell!

    Did ye not hear it?--No; twas but the wind,
      Or the car rattling oer the stony street;
    On with the dance! let joy be unconfined;
      No sleep till morn, when Youth and Pleasure meet
    To chase the glowing hours with flying feet.
      But hark!--that heavy sound breaks in once more,
    As if the clouds its echo would repeat;
      And nearer, clearer, deadlier than before!
  Arm! Arm! it is--it is--the cannons opening roar!

    Within a windowd niche of that high hall
      Sate Brunswicks fated chieftain; he did hear
    That sound, the first amidst the festival,
      And caught its tone with Deaths prophetic ear;
    And when they smiled because he deemd it near,
      His heart more truly knew that peal too well
    Which stretchd his father on a bloody bier,
      And rousd the vengeance blood alone could quell:
  He rushd into the field, and, foremost fighting, fell.

    Ah! then and there was hurrying to and fro,
      And gathering tears, and tremblings of distress,
    And cheeks all pale, which but an hour ago
      Blushd at the praise of their own loveliness;
    And there were sudden partings, such as press
      The life from out young hearts, and choking sighs
    Which neer might be repeated: who would guess
      If ever more should meet those mutual eyes,
  Since upon night so sweet such awful morn could rise!

    And there was mounting in hot haste: the steed,
      The mustering squadron, and the clattering car,
    Went pouring forward with impetuous speed,
      And swiftly forming in the ranks of war;
    And the deep thunder peal on peal afar;
      And near, the beat of the alarming drum
    Rousd up the soldier ere the morning star;
      While throngd the citizens with terror dumb,
  Or whispering with white lips--The foe! they come! they come!

    And wild and high the Camerons gathering rose,
      The war-note of Lochiel, which Albyns hills
    Have heard, and heard, too, have her Saxon foes:
      How in the noon of night that pibroch thrills
    Savage and shrill! But with the breath which fills
      Their mountain-pipe, so fill the mountaineers
    With the fierce native daring which instils
      The stirring memory of a thousand years,
  And Evans, Donalds fame rings in each clansmans ears!

    And Ardennes waves above them her green leaves,
      Dewy with Natures tear-drops, as they pass,
    Grieving, if aught inanimate eer grieves,
      Over the unreturning brave,--alas!
    Ere evening to be trodden like the grass
      Which now beneath them, but above shall grow
    In its next verdure, when this fiery mass
      Of living valour, rolling on the foe,
  And burning with high hope, shall moulder cold and low.

    Last noon beheld them full of lusty life,
      Last eve in Beautys circle proudly gay,
    The midnight brought the signal-sound of strife,
      The morn the marshalling in arms,--the day
    Battles magnificently stern array!
      The thunder-clouds close oer it, which when rent
    The earth is coverd thick with other clay,
      Which her own clay shall cover, heapd and pent,
  Rider and horse,--friend, foe,--in one red burial blent!

                        LORD BYRON.

THE GLORY THAT WAS GREECE

_I include this among the War Poems, because it is a call to a
conquered nation to rise in arms against their oppressors--a call that
was in due course answered._

  The isles of Greece! the isles of Greece!
    Where burning Sappho loved and sung,
  Where grew the arts of war and peace,
    Where Delos rose, and Phoebus sprung!
  Eternal summer gilds them yet,
  But all except their sun is set.

  The Scian and the Teian[43] muse,
    The heros harp, the lovers lute,
  Have found the fame your shores refuse:
    Their place of birth alone is mute
  To sounds which echo further west
  Than your sires Islands of the Blest.

  The mountains look on Marathon,
    And Marathon looks on the sea;
  And, musing there an hour alone,
    I dreamed that Greece might still be free;
  For, standing on the Persians grave,
  I could not deem myself a slave.

  A king sate on the rocky brow
    Which looks oer sea-born Salamis;
  And ships by thousands lay below,
    And men in nations;--all were his!
  He counted them at break of day,
  And when the sun set, where were they?

  And where are they? and where art thou,
    My country? On thy voiceless shore
  The heroic lay is tuneless now,
    The heroic bosom beats no more!
  And must thy lyre, so long divine,
  Degenerate into hands like mine?

  Tis something in the dearth of fame,
    Though linked among the fettered race,
  To feel at least a patriots shame,
    Even as I sing, suffuse my face;
  For what is left the poet here?
  For Greeks a blush--for Greece a tear!

  Must _we_ but weep oer days more blest?
    Must _we_ but blush? Our fathers bled.
  Earth! render back from out thy breast
    A remnant of our Spartan dead!
  Of the three hundred grant but three,
  To make a new Thermopyl!

  What, silent still? and silent all?
    Ah! no: the voices of the dead
  Sound like a distant torrents fall,
    And answer, Let one living head,
  But one arise,--we come, we come!
  Tis but the living who are dumb.

  In vain--in vain; strike other chords;
    Fill high the cup with Samian wine!
  Leave battles to the Turkish hordes,
    And shed the blood of Scios vine!
  Hark! rising to the ignoble call,
  How answers each bold Bacchanal!

  You have the Pyrrhic dance as yet;
    Where is the Pyrrhic phalanx gone?
  Of two such lessons, why forget
    The nobler and the manlier one?
  You have the letters Cadmus gave;
  Think ye he meant them for a slave?

  Fill high the bowl with Samian wine!
    We will not think of themes like these!
  It made Anacreons song divine:
    He served--but served Polycrates:
  A tyrant; but our masters then
  Were still, at least, our countrymen.

  The tyrant of the Chersonese
    Was freedoms best and bravest friend;
  _That_ tyrant was Miltiades!
    Oh that the present hour would lend
  Another despot of the kind!
  Such chains as his were sure to bind.

  Fill high the bowl with Samian wine!
    On Sulis rock and Pargas shore
  Exists the remnant of a line
    Such as the Doric mothers bore;
  And there, perhaps, some seed is sown
  The Heracleidan blood might own.

  Trust not for freedom to the Franks--
    They have a king who buys and sells;
  In native swords and native ranks
    The only hope of courage dwells:
  But Turkish force and Latin fraud
  Would break your shield, however broad.

  Fill high the bowl with Samian wine!
    Our virgins dance beneath the shade--
  I see their glorious black eyes shine;
    But, gazing on each glowing maid,
  My own the burning tear-drop laves,
  To think such breasts must suckle slaves.

  Place me on Suniums marbled steep,
    Where nothing save the waves and I
  May hear our mutual murmurs sweep;
    There, swan-like, let me sing and die:
  A land of slaves shall neer be mine--
  Dash down yon cup of Samian wine!

                        LORD BYRON.

[43] _Scian_ and _Teian_: i.e. Homer and Anacreon.

BATTLE HYMN OF THE AMERICAN REPUBLIC

  Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord:
  He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath are stored;
  He hath loosed the fatal lightning of his terrible swift sword:
          His truth is marching on.

  I have seen him in the watch-fires of a hundred circling camps;
  They have builded him an altar in the evening dews and damps;
  I can read his righteous sentence by the dim and flaring lamps:
          His day is marching on.

  He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call retreat;
  He is sifting out the hearts of men before his Judgment Seat;
  O, be swift, my soul to answer Him, be jubilant my feet!
          Our God is marching on.

  In the beauty of the lilies Christ was born, across the sea,
  With a glory in his bosom that transfigures you and me:
  As he died to make men holy, let us die to make men free,
          While God is marching on.

                   JULIA WARD HOWE.

TO LUCASTA, ON GOING TO THE WARS

  Tell me not, Sweet, I am unkind,
    That from the nunnery
  Of thy chaste breast and quiet mind
    To war and arms I fly.

  True, a new mistress now I chase,
    The first foe in the field;
  And with a stronger faith embrace
    A sword, a horse, a shield.

  Yet this inconstancy is such
    As you too shall adore;
  I could not love thee, Dear, so much,
    Loved I not Honour more.

                  RICHARD LOVELACE.

THE BLACK PRINCE

  O for the voice of that wild horn,
  On Fontarabian echoes borne,
    The dying heros call,
  That told imperial Charlemagne
  How Paynim sons of swarthy Spain
    Had wrought his champions fall.

  Sad over earth and ocean sounding,
  And Englands distant cliffs astounding,
    Such are the notes should say
  How Britains hope, and Frances fear,
  Victor of Cressy and Poitier,
    In Bordeaux dying lay.

  Raise my faint head, my squires, he said,
  And let the casement be displayed,
    That I may see once more
  The splendour of the setting sun
  Gleam on thy mirrored wave, Garonne,
    And Blays empurpled shore.

  Like me, he sinks to Glorys sleep,
  His fall the dews of evening steep,
    As if in sorrow shed.
  So soft shall fall the trickling tear,
  When Englands maids and matrons hear
    Of their Black Edward dead.

  And though my sun of glory set,
  Nor France nor England shall forget
    The terror of my name;
  And oft shall Britains heroes rise,
  New planets in these southern skies,
    Through clouds of blood and flame.

                  SIR WALTER SCOTT.

THE BURIAL OF SIR JOHN MOORE

  Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note,
    As his corse to the rampart we hurried;
  Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot
    Oer the grave where our hero we buried.

  We buried him darkly at dead of night,
    The sods with our bayonets turning,
  By the struggling moonbeams misty light
    And the lantern dimly burning.

  No useless coffin enclosed his breast,
    Not in sheet or in shroud we wound him;
  But he lay like a warrior taking his rest
    With his martial cloak around him.

  Few and short were the prayers we said,
    And we spoke not a word of sorrow;
  But we steadfastly gazed on the face of the dead,
    And we bitterly thought of the morrow.

  We thought, as we hollowd his narrow bed
    And smoothd down his lonely pillow,
  That the foe and the stranger would tread oer his head,
    And we far away on the billow!

  Lightly theyll talk of the spirit thats gone,
    And oer his cold ashes upbraid him--
  But little hell reck, if they let him sleep on
    In the grave where a Briton has laid him.

  But half of our heavy task was done
    When the clock struck the hour for retiring;
  And we heard the distant and random gun
    That the foe was sullenly firing.

  Slowly and sadly we laid him down,
    From the field of his fame fresh and gory;
  We carved not a line, and we raised not a stone,
    But we left him alone with his glory.

                     CHARLES WOLFE.

HOW SLEEP THE BRAVE

  How sleep the brave, who sink to rest
  By all their countrys wishes blest!
  When Spring, with dewy fingers cold,
  Returns to deck their hallowed mould,
  She there shall dress a sweeter sod
  Than Fancys feet have ever trod.

  By fairy hands their knell is rung;
  By forms unseen their dirge is sung;
  There Honour comes, a pilgrim grey,
  To bless the turf that wraps their clay;
  And Freedom shall awhile repair
  To dwell, a weeping hermit, there!

                   WILLIAM COLLINS.

SOLDIER, REST!

  Soldier, rest! thy warfare oer,
    Sleep the sleep that knows not breaking!
  Dream of battled fields no more,
    Days of danger, nights of waking.
  In our isles enchanted hall,
    Hands unseen thy couch are strewing,
  Fairy strains of music fall,
    Every sense in slumber dewing.
  Soldier, rest! thy warfare oer,
  Dream of fighting fields no more;
  Sleep the sleep that knows not breaking,
  Morn of toil, nor night of waking.

  No rude sound shall reach thine ear,
    Armours clang, or war-steed champing
  Trump nor pibroch summon here
    Mustering clan, or squadron tramping.
  Yet the larks shrill fife may come
    At the daybreak from the fallow,
  And the bittern sound his drum,
    Booming from the sedgy shallow.
  Ruder sounds shall none be near,
  Guards nor warders challenge here,
  Heres no war-steeds neigh and champing,
  Shouting clans, or squadrons stamping.

  Huntsman, rest! thy chase is done;
    While our slumbrous spells assail ye,
  Dream not, with the rising sun,
    Bugles here shall sound reveill.
  Sleep! the deer is in his den;
    Sleep! thy hounds are by thee lying;
  Sleep! nor dream in yonder glen,
    How thy gallant steed lay dying.
  Huntsman, rest! thy chase is done,
  Think not of the rising sun,
  For at dawning to assail ye,
  Here no bugles sound reveill.

                  SIR WALTER SCOTT.

THE OTHER SIDE OF IT

1. THE PATRIOT

  It was roses, roses, all the way,
    With myrtle mixed in my path like mad:
  The house-roofs seemed to heave and sway,
    The church-spires flamed, such flags they had,
  A year ago on this very day.

  The air broke into a mist with bells,
    The old walls rocked with the crowd and cries.
  Had I said, Good folk, mere noise repels--
    But give me your sun from yonder skies!
  They had answered, And afterward, what else?

  Alack, it was I who leaped at the sun
    To give it my loving friends to keep!
  Nought man could do, have I left undone:
    And you see my harvest, what I reap
  This very day, now a year is run.

  Theres nobody on the house-tops now--
    Just a palsied few at the windows set;
  For the best of the sight is, all allow,
    At the Shambles Gate--or, better yet,
  By the very scaffolds foot, I trow.

  I go in the rain, and, more than needs,
    A rope cuts both my wrists behind;
  And I think, by the feel, my forehead bleeds,
    For they fling, whoever has a mind,
  Stones at me for my years misdeeds.

  Thus I entered, and thus I go!
    In triumphs, people have dropped down dead,
  Paid by the world, what dost thou owe
    Me?--God might question; now instead,
  Tis God shall repay: I am safer so.

                   ROBERT BROWNING.

2. FOR THOSE WHO FAIL

  All honour to him who shall win the prize,
  The world has cried for a thousand years;
  But to him who tries and who fails and dies,
  I give great honour and glory and tears.

  O great is the hero who wins a name,
  But greater many and many a time
  Some pale-faced fellow who dies in shame,
  And lets God finish the thought sublime.

  And great is the man with a sword undrawn,
  And good is the man who refrains from wine;
  But the man who fails and yet fights on,
  Lo he is the twin-born brother of mine!

                    JOAQUIN MILLER.

3. KEEPING ON

  Say not the struggle nought availeth,
    The labour and the wounds are vain,
  The enemy faints not, nor faileth,
    And as things have been they remain.

  If hopes were dupes, fears may be liars;
    It may be, in yon smoke concealed,
  Your comrades chase een now the fliers,
    And, but for you, possess the field.

  For while the tired waves, vainly breaking,
    Seem here no painful inch to gain,
  Far back, through creeks and inlets making,
    Comes silent, flooding in, the main.

  And not by eastern windows only,
    When daylight comes, comes in the light;
  In front the sun climbs slow, how slowly!
    But westward, look, the land is bright!

                      A. H. CLOUGH.

STORY-POEMS

THE LADY OF SHALOTT

I.

  On either side the river lie
  Long fields of barley and of rye,
  That clothe the wold and meet the sky;
  And through the field the road runs by
    To many-towered Camelot;
  And up and down the people go,
  Gazing where the lilies blow
  Round an island there below,
    The island of Shalott.

  Willows whiten, aspens quiver,
  Little breezes dusk and shiver
  Through the wave that runs for ever
  By the island in the river
    Flowing down to Camelot.
  Four gray walls, and four gray towers,
  Overlook a space of flowers,
  And the silent isle embowers
    The Lady of Shalott.

  By the margin, willow-veild,
  Slide the heavy barges traild
  By slow horses; and unhaild
  The shallop flitteth silken-saild
    Skimming down to Camelot:
  But who has seen her wave her hand?
  Or at the casement seen her stand?
  Or is she known in all the land,
    The Lady of Shalott?

  Only reapers, reaping early
  In among the bearded barley,
  Hear a song that echoes cheerly
  From the river winding clearly,
    Down to towered Camelot:
  And by moon the reaper weary,
  Piling sheaves in upland airy,
  Listening, whispers, Tis the fairy
    Lady of Shalott.

II.

  There she weaves by night and day
  A magic web with colours gay.
  She has heard a whisper say,
  A curse is on her if she stay
    To look down to Camelot.
  She knows not what the curse may be,
  And so she weaveth steadily,
  And little other care hath she,
    The Lady of Shalott.

  And moving thro a mirror clear
  That hangs before her all the year,
  Shadows of the world appear.
  There she sees the highway near
    Winding down to Camelot:
  There the river eddy whirls,
  And there the surly village-churls,
  And the red cloaks of market girls,
    Pass onward from Shalott.

  Sometimes a troop of damsels glad,
  An abbot on an ambling pad,
  Sometimes a curly shepherd-lad,
  Or long-haird page in crimson clad,
    Goes by to towerd Camelot:
  And sometimes through the mirror blue
  The knights come riding two and two:
  She hath no loyal knight and true,
    The Lady of Shalott.

  But in her web she still delights
  To weave the mirrors magic sights,
  For often through the silent nights
  A funeral, with plumes and lights
    And music, went to Camelot:
  Or, when the moon was overhead,
  Came two young lovers lately wed;
  I am half sick of shadows, said
    The Lady of Shalott.

III.

  A bow-shot from her bower-eaves,
  He rode between the barley-sheaves,
  The sun came dazzling thro the leaves,
    Of bold Sir Lancelot.
  A red-cross knight for ever kneeld
  To a lady in his shield,
  That sparkled on the yellow field
    Beside remote Shalott.

  The gemmy bridle glitterd free,
  Like to some branch of stars we see
  Hung in the golden Galaxy[45].
  The bridle bells rang merrily
    As he rode down to Camelot:
  And from his blazond baldric[46] slung
  A mighty silver bugle hung,
  And as he rode his armour rung,
    Beside remote Shalott.

  All in the blue unclouded weather
  Thick-jewelld shone the saddle-leather,
  The helmet and the helmet-feather
  Burnd like one burning flame together,
    As he rode down to Camelot.
  As often thro the purple night,
  Below the starry clusters bright,
  Some bearded meteor, trailing light,
    Moves over still Shalott.

  His broad clear brow in sunlight glowd;
  On burnishd hooves his war-horse trode;
  From underneath his helmet flowd
  His coal-black curls as on he rode,
    As he rode down to Camelot.
  From the bank and from the river
  He flashd into the crystal mirror,
  Tirra lirra, by the river
    Sang Sir Lancelot.

  She left the web, she left the loom,
  She made three paces thro the room,
  She saw the water-lily bloom,
  She saw the helmet and the plume,
    She lookd down to Camelot.
  Out flew the web and floated wide;
  The mirror crackd from side to side;
  The curse is come upon me, cried
    The Lady of Shalott.

IV.

  In the stormy east-wind straining,
  The pale yellow woods were waning,
  The broad stream in his banks complaining,
  Heavily the low sky raining
    Over towerd Camelot;
  Down she came and found a boat
  Beneath a willow left afloat,
  And round about the prow she wrote
    _The Lady of Shalott_.

  And down the rivers dim expanse--
  Like some bold seer in a trance,
  Seeing all his own mischance--
  With a glassy countenance
    Did she look to Camelot.
  And at the closing of the day
  She loosed the chain and down she lay;
  The broad stream bore her far away,
    The Lady of Shalott.

  Lying, robed in snowy white
  That loosely flew to left and right--
  The leaves upon her falling light--
  Thro the noises of the night
    She floated down to Camelot:
  And as the boat-head wound along
  The willowy hills and fields among,
  They heard her singing her last song,
    The Lady of Shalott.

  Heard a carol, mournful, holy,
  Chanted loudly, chanted lowly,
  Till her blood was frozen slowly,
  And her eyes were darkend wholly,
    Turnd to towerd Camelot.
  For ere she reached upon the tide
  The first house by the water-side,
  Singing in her song she died,
    The Lady of Shalott.

  Under tower and balcony,
  By garden-wall and gallery,
  A gleaming shape she floated by,
  Dead-pale between the houses high,
    Silent into Camelot.
  Out upon the wharfs they came,
  Knight and burgher[47], lord and dame,
  And round the prow they read her name,
    _The Lady of Shalott_.

  Who is this? and what is here?
  And in the lighted palace near
  Died the sound of royal cheer;
  And they crossd themselves for fear
    All the knights at Camelot:
  But Lancelot mused a little space;
  He said, She has a lovely face;
  God in his mercy lend her grace,
    The Lady of Shalott.

             ALFRED, LORD TENNYSON.

[44] _greaves_: leg-armour below the knee.

[45] _galaxy_: the Milky Way.

[46] _blazond baldric_: a broad shoulder-belt painted
heraldically.

[47] _burgher_: citizen.

THE FORSAKEN MERMAN

  Come, dear children, let us away;
    Down and away below.
  Now my brothers call from the bay;
  Now the great winds shoreward blow;
  Now the salt tides seaward flow;
  Now the wild white horses play,
  Champ and chafe and toss in the spray.
  Children dear, let us away.
    This way, this way!

  Call her once before you go--
    Call once yet!
  In a voice that she will know:
    Margaret! Margaret!
  Childrens voices should be dear
  (Call once more) to a mothers ear;
  Childrens voices, wild with pain--
  Surely she will come again!
  Call her once and come away.
    This way, this way!
  Mother dear, we cannot stay!
  The wild white horses foam and fret.
    Margaret! Margaret!

  Come, dear children, come away down.
    Call no more.
  One last look at the white-walld town,
  And the little grey church on the windy shore.
    Then come down.
  She will not come though you call all day.
    Come away, come away!

  Children dear, was it yesterday
  We heard the sweet bells over the bay?
  In the caverns where we lay,
  Through the surf and through the swell,
  The far-off sound of a silver bell?
  Sand-strewn caverns, cool and deep,
  Where the winds are all asleep;
  Where the spent lights quiver and gleam;
  Where the salt weed sways in the stream;
  Where the sea-beasts, ranged all round,
  Feed in the ooze of their pasture-ground;
  Where the sea-snakes coil and twine,
  Dry their mail and bask in the brine;
  Where great whales come sailing by,
  Sail and sail, with unshut eye,
  Round the world for ever and aye?
  When did music come this way?
  Children dear, was it yesterday?

  Children dear, was it yesterday
  (Call yet once) that she went away?
  Once she sate with you and me,
  On a red gold throne in the heart of the sea,
  And the youngest sate on her knee.
  She combed its bright hair, and she tended it well,
  When down swung the sound of a far-off bell.
  She sighd, she lookd up through the clear green sea;
  She said: I must go, for my kinsfolk pray
  In the little grey church on the shore to-day,
  Twill be Easter-time in the world--ah me!
  And I lose my poor soul, Merman, here with thee.
  I said, Go up, dear heart, through the waves;
  Say thy prayer, and come back to the kind sea-caves.
  She smiled, she went up through the surf in the bay.
    Children dear, was it yesterday?

    Children dear, were we long alone?
  The sea grows stormy, the little ones moan.
  Long prayers, I said, in the world they say.
  Come! I said, and we rose through the surf in the bay.
  We went up the beach, by the sandy down
  Where the sea-stocks bloom, to the white-walled town.
  Through the narrow paved streets, where all was still,
  To the little grey church on the windy hill.
  From the church came a murmur of folk at their prayers,
  But we stood without in the cold blowing airs.
  We climbd on the graves, on the stones worn with rains,
  And we gazed up the aisle through the small leaded panes.
    She sate by the pillar; we saw her clear:
    Margaret, hist! come quick, we are here!
    Dear heart, I said, we are long alone.
    The sea grows stormy, the little ones moan.
  But, ah! she gave me never a look,
  For her eyes were sealed to the holy book.
  Loud prays the priest; shut stands the door.
    Come away, children, call no more.
    Come away, come down, call no more.

  Down, down, down,
    Down to the depths of the sea!
  She sits at her wheel in the humming town,
    Singing most joyfully.
  Hark what she sings: O joy, O joy,
  For the humming street, and the child with its toy!
  For the priest, and the bell, and the holy well;
    For the wheel where I spun,
    And the blessd light of the sun!
  And so she sings her fill.
  Singing most joyfully,
  Till the spindle drops from her hand,
  And the whizzing wheel stands still.
  She steals to the window and looks at the sand,
  And over the sand at the sea;
  And her eyes are set in a stare;
  And anon there breaks a sigh,
  And anon there drops a tear,
  From a sorrow-clouded eye,
  And a heart sorrow-laden,
    A long, long sigh
  For the cold strange eyes of a little Mermaiden
  And the gleam of her golden hair.

  Come away, away, children!
  Come children, come down!
  The hoarse wind blows coldly;
  Lights shine in the town.
  She will start from her slumber
  When gusts shake the door;
  She will hear the winds howling,
  Will hear the waves roar.
  We shall see, while above us
  The waves roar and whirl,
  A ceiling of amber,
  A pavement of pearl.
  Singing: Here came a mortal,
  But faithless was she:
  And alone dwell for ever
  The kings of the sea.

  But, children, at midnight,
  When soft the winds blow,
  When clear falls the moonlight,
  When spring-tides are low:
  When sweet airs come seaward
  From heaths starrd with broom;
  And high rocks throw mildly
  On the blanchd sands a gloom:
  Up the still, glistening beaches,
  Up the creeks we will hie,
  Over banks of bright seaweed
  The ebb-tide leaves dry.
  We will gaze, from the sand-hills,
  At the white, sleeping town;
  At the church on the hill-side--
  And then come back down.
  Singing: There dwells a loved one,
    But cruel is she.
  She left lonely for ever
    The kings of the sea.

                    MATTHEW ARNOLD.

THE LEGEND BEAUTIFUL

  Hadst thou stayed, I must have fled!
  That is what the Vision said.

  In his chamber all alone,
  Kneeling on the floor of stone,
  Prayed the Monk in deep contrition
  For his sins of indecision,
  Prayed for greater self-denial
  In temptation and in trial;
  It was noonday by the dial,
  And the Monk was all alone.

  Suddenly, as if it lightend,
  An unwonted splendour brightend
  All within him and without him
  In that narrow cell of stone;
  And he saw the Blessed Vision
  Like a vesture wrapped about him,
  Like a garment round him thrown.

  Not as crucified and slain,
  Not in agonies of pain,
  Not with bleeding hands and feet,
  Did the Monk his Master see;
  But as in the village street,
  In the house or harvest-field,
  Halt and lame and blind he healed,
  When he walked in Galilee.

  In an attitude imploring,
  Hands upon his bosom crossed,
  Wondering, worshipping, adoring,
  Knelt the Monk in rapture lost.
  Lord, he thought, in heaven that reignest,
  Who am I, that thus thou deignest
  To reveal thyself to me?
  Who am I, that from the centre
  Of thy glory thou shouldst enter
  This poor cell, my guest to be?

  Then amid his exaltation,
  Loud the convent bell appalling,
  From its belfry calling, calling,
  Rang through court and corridor
  With persistent iteration
  He had never heard before.
  It was now the appointed hour
  When alike in sun or shower,
  Winters cold or summers heat,
  To the convent portals came
  All the blind and halt and lame,
  All the beggars of the street,
  For their daily dole of food
  Dealt them by the brotherhood;
  And their almoner[49] was he
  Who upon his bended knee,
  Rapt in silent ecstasy
  Of divinest self-surrender,
  Saw the Vision and the Splendour.

  Deep distress and hesitation
  Mingled with his adoration;
  Should he go or should he stay?
  Should he leave the poor to wait
  Hungry at the convent gate,
  Till the Vision passed away?
  Should he slight his radiant guest,
  Slight his visitant celestial,
  For a crowd of ragged, bestial
  Beggars at the convent gate?
  Would the Vision there remain?
  Would the Vision come again?

  Then a voice within his breast
  Whispered, audible and clear,
  As if to the outward ear:
  Do thy duty; that is best;
  Leave unto thy Lord the rest!
  Straightway to his feet he started,
  And with longing look intent
  On the Blessed Vision bent,
  Slowly from his cell departed,
  Slowly on his errand went.

  At the gate the poor were waiting,
  Looking through the iron grating,
  With that terror in the eye
  That is only seen in those
  Who amid their wants and woes
  Hear the sound of doors that close,
  And of feet that pass them by;
  Grown familiar with disfavour,
  Grown familiar with the savour
  Of the bread by which men die!
  But to-day, they knew not why,
  Like the gate of Paradise
  Seemed the convent gate to rise,
  Like a sacrament divine
  Seemed to them the bread and wine.
  In his heart the Monk was praying,
  Thinking of the homeless poor,
  What they suffer and endure;
  What we see not, what we see;
  And the inward voice was saying:
  Whatsoever thing thou doest
  To the least of mine and lowest,
  That thou doest unto me!

  Unto me! but had the Vision
  Come to him in beggars clothing,
  Come a mendicant imploring,
  Would he then have knelt adoring,
  Or have listened with derision,
  And have turned away with loathing?

  Thus his conscience put the question,
  Full of troublesome suggestion,
  As at length, with hurried pace,
  Towards his cell he turned his face,
  And beheld the convent bright
  With a supernatural light,
  Like a luminous cloud expanding
  Over floor and wall and ceiling.

  But he paused with awe-struck feeling
  At the threshold of his door,
  For the Vision still was standing
  As he left it there before,
  When the convent bell appalling,
  From its belfry calling, calling,
  Summoned him to feed the poor.

  Through the long hour intervening
  It had waited his return,
  And he felt his bosom burn,
  Comprehending all the meaning,
  When the Blessed Vision said,
  Hadst thou stayed, I must have fled!

                  H. W. LONGFELLOW.

[48] _Elysian_: heavenly.

[49] _almoner_: giver of alms or charity.

ABOU BEN ADHEM

  Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase!)
  Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace,
  And saw, within the moonlight in his room,
  Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom,
  An angel writing in a book of gold:--
  Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold,
  And to the presence in the room he said,
  What writest thou?--The vision raisd its head,
  And with a look made all of sweet accord,
  Answerd, The names of those that love the Lord.
  And is mine one? said Abou. Nay, not so,
  Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low,
  But cheerly still; and said, I pray thee, then,
  Write me as one that loves his fellow men.

  The angel wrote, and vanished. The next night
  It came again with a great wakening light,
  And showd the names whom love of God had blest,
  And lo! Ben Adhems name led all the rest.

                        LEIGH HUNT.

THE SANDS OF DEE

  O Mary, go and call the cattle home,
    And call the cattle home,
    And call the cattle home,
      Across the sands of Dee;
  The western wind was wild and dank with foam,
      And all alone went she.

  The western tide crept up along the sand,
    And oer and oer the sand,
    And round and round the sand,
      As far as eye could see.
  The rolling mist came down and hid the land:
      And never home came she.

  O is it weed, or fish, or floating hair--
    A tress of golden hair,
    A drownd maidens hair,
      Above the nets at sea?
  Was never salmon yet that shone so fair
      Among the stakes of Dee.

  They rowed her in across the rolling foam,
    The cruel crawling foam,
    The cruel hungry foam,
      To her grave beside the sea.
  But still the boatmen hear her call the cattle home,
      Across the sands of Dee.

                  CHARLES KINGSLEY.

LOCHINVAR

  O young Lochinvar is come out of the west,
  Through all the wide Border his steed was the best,
  And save his good broad-sword he weapons had none;
  He rode all unarmed, and he rode all alone.
  So faithful in love, and so dauntless in war,
  There never was knight like the young Lochinvar.

  He stayd not for brake, and he stoppd not for stone,
  He swam the Esk river where ford there was none;
  But, ere he alighted at Netherby gate,
  The bride had consented, the gallant came late:
  For a laggard in love, and a dastard in war,
  Was to wed the fair Ellen of brave Lochinvar.

  So boldly he entered the Netherby Hall,
  Among brides-men and kinsmen, and brothers and all:
  Then spoke the brides father, his hand on his sword
  (For the poor craven bridegroom said never a word),
  O come ye in peace here, or come ye in war,
  Or to dance at our bridal, young Lord Lochinvar?

  I long wooed your daughter, my suit you denied:--
  Love swells like the Solway, but ebbs like its tide--
  And now I am come, with this lost love of mine
  To lead but one measure, drink one cup of wine.
  There are maidens in Scotland more lovely by far,
  That would gladly be bride to the young Lochinvar.

  The bride kissd the goblet; the knight took it up,
  He quaffd off the wine, and he threw down the cup;
  She lookd down to blush, and she lookd up to sigh,
  With a smile on her lips and a tear in her eye.
  He took her soft hand, ere her mother could bar,--
  Now tread we a measure! said young Lochinvar.

  So stately his form, and so lovely her face,
  That never a hall such a galliard[50] did grace;
  While her mother did fret, and her father did fume,
  And the bridegroom stood dangling his bonnet and plume;
  And the bride-maidens whisperd, Twere better by far
  To have matchd our fair cousin with young Lochinvar.

  One touch to her hand and one word in her ear,
  When they reachd the hall door and the charger stood near;
  So light to the croupe the fair lady he swung,
  So light to the saddle before her he sprung!
  She is won! we are gone, over bank, bush, and scaur[51];
  Theyll have fleet steeds that follow, quoth young Lochinvar.

  There was mounting mong Graemes of the Netherby clan;
  Forsters, Fenwicks, and Musgraves, they rode and they ran:
  There was racing and chasing on Cannobie Lee,
  But the lost bride of Netherby neer did they see.
  So daring in love, and so dauntless in war,
  Have ye eer heard of gallant like young Lochinvar?

                  SIR WALTER SCOTT.

[50] _galliard_: a gay dance.

[51] _scaur_: a steep bank.

DAY-DREAMS

_This section will appeal to girls rather than to boys. And yet
day-dreams are no bad things for either sex--just now and again, as a
getting away from realities._

DREAMS TO SELL

  If there were dreams to sell,
    What would you buy?
  Some cost a passing bell;
    Some a light sigh,
  That shakes from Lifes fresh crown
  Only a rose-leaf down.
  If there were dreams to sell,
  Merry and sad to tell,
  And the crier rang the bell,
    What would you buy?

  A cottage lone and still,
    With bowers nigh,
  Shadowy, my woes to still,
    Until I die.
  Such pearl from Lifes fresh crown
  Fain would I shake me down.
  Were dreams to have at will,
  This would best heal my ill,
    This would I buy.

                     T. L. BEDDOES.

THE LOST BOWER

        In the pleasant orchard closes,
        God bless all our gains, say we;
        But May God bless all our losses,
        Better suits with our degree.--
  Listen gentle--ay, and simple! Listen children on the knee!

        Green the land is where my daily
        Steps in jocund childhood played--
        Dimpled close with hill and valley,
        Dappled very close with shade;
  Summer-snow of apple blossoms, running up from glade to glade.

        There is one hill I see nearer,
        In my vision of the rest;
        And a little wood seems clearer,
        As it climbeth from the west,
  Sideway from the tree-locked valley, to the airy upland crest.

        Small the wood is, green with hazels,
        And, completing the ascent,
        Where the wind blows and sun dazzles,
        Thrills in leafy tremblement:
  Like a heart that, after climbing, beateth quickly through content.

        Not a step the wood advances
        Oer the open hill-tops bound:
        There, in green arrest, the branches
        See their image on the ground:
  You may walk between them smiling, glad with sight and glad with
      sound.

        For you hearken on your right hand,
        How the birds do leap and call
        In the greenwood, out of sight and
        Out of reach and fear of all;
  And the squirrels crack the filberts, through their cheerful madrigal.

        On your left, the sheep are cropping
        The slant grass and daisies pale;
        And five apple-trees stand, dropping
        Separate shadows toward the vale,
  Over which, in choral silence, the hills look you their All hail!

        Yet in childhood little prized I
        That fair walk and far survey:
        Twas a straight walk, unadvised by
        The least mischief worth a nay--
  Up and down--as dull as grammar on an eve of holiday!

        But the wood, all close and clenching
        Bough in bough and root in root,--
        No more sky (for over-branching)
        At your head than at your foot,--
  Oh, the wood drew me within it, by a glamour past dispute.

        Few and broken paths showed through it,
        Where the sheep had tried to run,--
        Forced with snowy wool to strew it
        Round the thickets, when anon
  They with silly thorn-pricked noses bleated back into the sun.

        But my childish heart beat stronger
        Than those thickets dared to grow:
        _I_ could pierce them! _I_ could longer
        Travel on, methought, than so!
  Sheep for sheep-paths! braver children climb and creep where they
      would go.

        On a day, such pastime keeping,
        With a fawns heart debonair,
        Under-crawling, overleaping
        Thorns that prick and boughs that bear,
  I stood suddenly astonished--I was gladdened unaware!

        From the place I stood in, floated
        Back the covert dim and close;
        And the open ground was suited
        Carpet-smooth with grass and moss,
  And the blue-bells purple presence signed it worthily across.

        Twas a bower for garden fitter,
        Than for any woodland wide!
        Though a fresh and dewy glitter
        Struck it through, from side to side,
  Shaped and shaven was the freshness, as by garden-cunning plied.

        Rose-trees, either side the door, were
        Growing lithe and growing tall;
        Each one set a summer warder
        For the keeping of the hall,--
  With a red rose, and a white rose, leaning, nodding at the wall.

        As I entered--mosses hushing
        Stole all noises from my foot:
        And a round elastic cushion,
        Clasped within the lindens root,
  Took me in a chair of silence, very rare and absolute.

        So, young muser, I sat listening
        To my Fancys wildest word--
        On a sudden, through the glistening
        Leaves around, a little stirred,
  Came a sound, a sense of music, which was rather felt than heard.

        Softly, finely, it inwound me--
        From the world it shut me in,--
        Like a fountain falling round me,
        Which with silver waters thin
  Clips a little marble Naiad, sitting smilingly within.

        Whence the music came, who knoweth?
        _I_ know nothing. But indeed
        Pan or Faunus never bloweth
        So much sweetness from a reed
  Which has sucked the milk of waters, at the oldest river-head.

        Never lark the sun can waken
        With such sweetness! when the lark,
        The high planets overtaking
        In the half-evanished Dark,
  Casts his singing to their singing, like an arrow to the mark.

        Never nightingale so singeth--
        Oh! she leans on thorny tree,
        And her poet-soul she flingeth
        Over pain to victory!
  Yet she never sings such music,--or she sings it not to me!

        Never blackbirds, never thrushes,
        Nor small finches sing as sweet,
        When the sun strikes through the bushes
        To their crimson clinging feet,
  And their pretty eyes look sideways to the summer heavens complete.

        In a child-abstraction lifted,
        Straightway from the bower I passed;
        Foot and soul being dimly drifted
        Through the greenwood, till, at last,
  In the hill-tops open sunshine, I all consciously was cast.

        And I said within me, laughing,
        I have found a bower to-day,
        A green lusus[52]--fashioned half in
        Chance, and half in Natures play--
  And a little bird sings nigh it, I will never more missay.

        Henceforth, _I_ will be the fairy
        Of this bower, not built by one;
        I will go there, sad or merry,
        With each mornings benison;
  And the bird shall be my harper in the dream-hall I have won.

        So I said. But the next morning,
        (--Child, look up into my face--
        Ware, O sceptic, of your scorning!
        This is truth in its pure grace;)
  The next morning, all had vanished, or my wandering missed the place.

        Day by day, with new desire,
        Toward my wood I ran in faith--
        Under leaf and over brier--
        Through the thickets, out of breath--
  Like the prince who rescued Beauty from the sleep as long as death.

        But his sword of mettle clashd,
        And his arm smote strong, I ween;
        And her dreaming spirit flashd
        Through her bodys fair white screen,
  And the light thereof might guide him up the cedarn alleys green.

        But for me, I saw no splendour--
        All my sword was my child-heart;
        And the wood refused surrender
        Of that bower it held apart,
  Safe as dipuss grave-place, mid Colones olives swart.

        I have lost--oh many a pleasure--
        Many a hope, and many a power--
        Studious health and merry leisure--
        The first dew on the first flower!
  But the first of all my losses was the losing of the bower.

        All my losses did I tell you,
        Ye, perchance, would look away;--
        Ye would answer me, Farewell! you
        Make sad company to-day;
  And your tears are falling faster than the bitter words you say.

        For God placed me like a dial
        In the open ground, with power;
        And my heart had for its trial,
        All the sun and all the shower!
  And I suffered many losses; and my first was of the bower.

        ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.

[52] _lusus_: a sport, a freak.

ECHO AND THE FERRY

  Ay, Oliver! I was but seven, and he was eleven;
  He looked at me pouting and rosy. I blushed where I stood.
  They had told us to play in the orchard (and I only seven!
  A small guest at the farm); but he said, Oh, a girl was no good,
  So he whistled and went, he went over the stile to the wood.
  It was sad, it was sorrowful! Only a girl--only seven!
  At home in the dark London smoke I had not found it out.
  The pear trees looked on in their white, and blue birds flashed
    about;
  And they too were angry as Oliver. Were they eleven?
  I thought so. Yes, every one else was eleven--eleven!

  So Oliver went, but the cowslips were tall at my feet,
  And all the white orchard with fast-falling blossom was littered,
  And under and over the branches those little birds twittered,
  While hanging head downwards they scolded because I was seven.
  A pity. A very great pity. One should be eleven.
  But soon I was happy, the smell of the world was so sweet.
  And I saw a round hole in an apple-tree rosy and old.
  Then I knew! for I peeped, and I felt it was right they should
    scold!
  Eggs small and eggs many. For gladness I broke into laughter;
  And then some one else--oh, how softly! came after, came after
  With laughter--with laughter came after.

  So this was the country; clear dazzle of azure and shiver
  And whisper of leaves, and a humming all over the tall
  White branches, a humming of bees. And I came to the wall--
  A little low wall--and looked over, and there was the river,
  The lane that led on to the village, and then the sweet river.
  Clear-shining and slow, she had far far to go from her snow;
  But each rush gleamed a sword in the sunlight to guard her long
    flow,
  And she murmured methought, with a speech very soft, very low--
  The ways will be long, but the days will be long, quoth the
    river,
  To me a long liver, long, long! quoth the river--the river.

  I dreamed of the country that night, of the orchard, the sky,
  The voice that had mocked coming after and over and under.
  But at last--in a day or two namely--Eleven and I
  Were very fast friends, and to him I confided the wonder.
  He said that was Echo. Was Echo a wise kind of bee
  That had learned how to laugh: could it laugh in ones ear and then
    fly,
  And laugh again yonder? No; Echo--he whispered it low--
  Was a woman, they said, but a woman whom no one could see
  And no one could find; and he did not believe it, not he,
  But he could not get near for the river that held us asunder.
  Yet I that had money--a shilling, a whole silver shilling--
  We might cross if I thought I would spend it. Oh yes, I was
    willing--
  And we ran hand in hand, we ran down to the ferry, the ferry,
  And we heard how she mocked at the folk with a voice clear and merry
  When they called for the ferry; but oh! she was very--was very
  Swift-footed. She spoke and was gone; and when Oliver cried,
  Hie over! hie over! you man of the ferry--the ferry!
  By the still waters side she was heard far and wide--she replied,
  And she mocked in her voice sweet and merry You man of the ferry,
  You man of--you man of the ferry!

  Hie over! he shouted. The ferryman came at his calling,
  Across the clear reed-bordered river he ferried us fast;--
  Such a chase! Hand in hand, foot to foot, we ran on; it surpassed
  All measure her doubling--so close, then so far away falling,
  Then gone, and no more. Oh! to see her but once unaware,
  And the mouth that had mocked, but we might not (yet sure she was
    there!)
  Nor behold her wild eyes and her mystical countenance fair.

  We sought in the wood, and we found the wood-wren in her stead;
  In the field, and we found but the cuckoo that talked overhead;
  By the brook, and we found the reed-sparrow deep-nested, in brown--
  Not Echo, fair Echo! for Echo, sweet Echo! was flown.

  So we came to the place where the dead people wait till God call.
  The church was among them, grey moss over roof, over wall.
  Very silent, so low. And we stood on a green grassy mound
  And looked in at a window, for Echo, perhaps, in her round
  Might have come in to hide there. But no; every oak carven seat
  Was empty. We saw the great Bible--old, old, very old,
  And the parsons great Prayer-book beside it; we heard the slow beat
  Of the pendulum swing in the tower; we saw the clear gold
  Of a sunbeam float down to the aisle and then waver and play
  On the low chancel step and the railing, and Oliver said,
  Look, Katie! Look, Katie! when Lettice came here to be wed
  She stood where that sunbeam drops down, and all white was her gown;
  And she stepped upon flowers they strewed for her. Then quoth small
    Seven,
  Shall I wear a white gown and have flowers to walk upon ever?

  All doubtful: It takes a long time to grow up, quoth Eleven;
  Youre so little, you know, and the church is so old, it can never
  Last on till youre tall. And in whispers--because it was old,
  And holy, and fraught with strange meaning, half felt, but not told,
  Full of old parsons prayers, who were dead, of old days, of old folk
  Neither heard nor beheld, but about us, in whispers we spoke.
  Then we went from it softly, and ran hand in hand to the strand,
  While bleating of flocks and birds piping made sweeter the land,
  And Echo came back een as Oliver drew to the ferry,
  O Katie! O Katie! Come on, then! Come on, then! For, see,
  The round sun, all red, lying low by the tree--by the tree.
  By the tree. Ay, she mocked him again, with her voice sweet and
    merry:
  Hie over! Hie over! You man of the ferry--the ferry.
  You man of the ferry--you man of--you man of--the ferry.

  Ay, here--it was here that we woke her, the Echo of old;
  All life of that day seems an echo, and many times told.
  Shall I cross by the ferry to-morrow, and come in my white
  To that little old church? and will Oliver meet me anon?
  Will it all seem an echo from childhood passed over--passed on?
  Will the grave parson bless us? Hark, hark! in the dim failing light
  I hear her! As then the childs voice clear and high, sweet and merry
  Now she mocks the mans tone with Hie over! Hie over the ferry!
  And Katie. And Katie. Art out with the glowworms to-night,
  My Katie? My Katie. For gladness I break into laughter
  And tears. Then it all comes again as from far-away years;
  Again, some one else--Oh, how softly!--with laughter comes after,
  Comes after--with laughter comes after.

                      JEAN INGELOW.

POOR SUSANS DREAM

  At the corner of Wood Street, when daylight appears,
  Hangs a thrush that sings loud, it has sung for three years:
  Poor Susan has passed by the spot, and has heard
  In the silence of morning the song of the bird.

  Tis a note of enchantment; what ails her? She sees
  A mountain ascending, a vision of trees;
  Bright volumes of vapour through Lothbury glide,
  And a river flows on through the vale of Cheapside.

  Green pastures she views in the midst of the dale
  Down which she so often has trippd with her pail;
  And a single small cottage, a nest like a doves,
  The one only dwelling on earth that she loves.

  She looks, and her heart is in heaven: but they fade,
  The mist and the river, the hill and the shade;
  The stream will not flow, and the hill will not rise,
  And the colours have all passed away from her eyes!

                WILLIAM WORDSWORTH.

FANCY

  Tell me where is Fancy bred,
  Or in the heart or in the head?
  How begot, how nourishd?
      Reply, reply.
  It is engenderd in the eyes,
  With gazing fed; and Fancy dies
  In the cradle where it lies.
    Let us all ring Fancys knell:
    Ill begin it,--Ding, dong, bell.
  Ding, dong, bell.

                       SHAKESPEARE.

TWO HOME-COMINGS

1. THE GOOD WOMAN MADE WELCOME IN HEAVEN

  Angels, thy old friends, there shall greet thee,
  Glad at their own home now to meet thee.
  All thy good works which went before,
  And waited for thee at the door,
  Shall own thee there; and all in one
  Weave a constellation
  Of crowns, with which the King, thy spouse,
  Shall build up thy triumphant brows.
  All thy old woes shall now smile on thee,
  And thy pains sit bright upon thee:
  All thy sorrows here shall shine,
  And thy sufferings be divine.
  Tears shall take comfort, and turn gems,
  And wrongs repent to diadems.
  Even thy deaths shall live, and new
  Dress the soul which late they slew.
  Thy wounds shall blush to such bright scars
  As keep account of the Lambs wars.

                   RICHARD CRASHAW.

2. THE SOLDIER RELIEVED

  Id like now, yet had haply been afraid,
  To have just looked, when this man came to die,
  And seen who lined the clean gay garret sides,
  And stood about the neat low truckle-bed,
  With the heavenly manner of relieving guard.
  Here had been, mark, the general-in-chief,
  Thro a whole campaign of the worlds life and death,
  Doing the Kings work all the dim day long,
  In his old coat and up to knees in mud,
  Smoked like a herring, dining on a crust,--
  And, now the day was won, relieved at once!
  No further show or need of that old coat,
  You are sure, for one thing! Bless us, all the while
  How sprucely we are dressed out, you and I!
  A second, and the angels alter that.

                   ROBERT BROWNING.

WHEN KNIGHTS WERE BOLD

HUNTING SONG

  Waken, lords and ladies gay,
  On the mountain dawns the day,
  All the jolly chase is here,
  With horse, and hawk, and hunting spear!
  Hounds are in their couples yelling,
  Hawks are whistling, horns are knelling[53].
  Merrily, merrily, mingle they,
  Waken, lords and ladies gay.

  Waken, lords and ladies gay,
  The mist has left the mountain grey,
  Springlets in the dawn are steaming,
  Diamonds on the brake[54] are gleaming,
  And foresters have busy been
  To track the buck in thicket green;
  Now we come to chant our lay,
  Waken, lords and ladies gay.

  Waken, lords and ladies gay,
  To the greenwood haste away;
  We can show you where he lies,
  Fleet of foot, and tall of size;
  We can show the marks he made
  When gainst the oak his antlers[55] frayed;
  You shall see him brought to bay;
  Waken, lords and ladies gay.

  Louder, louder chant the lay,
  Waken, lords and ladies gay!
  Tell them youth, and mirth, and glee,
  Run a course as well as we;
  Time, stern huntsman! who can baulk,
  Stanch as hound, and fleet as hawk?
  Think of this, and rise with day,
  Gentle lords and ladies gay!

                  SIR WALTER SCOTT.

[53] _knelling_: sounding like a bell.

[54] _brake_: fern, bracken.

[55] _antlers_: horns.

THE RIDING TO THE TOURNAMENT

  Over meadows purple-flowered,
  Through the dark lanes oak-embowered,
  Over commons dry and brown,
  Through the silent red-roofed town,
  Past the reapers and the sheaves,
  Over white roads strewn with leaves,
  By the gipsys ragged tent,
  Rode we to the Tournament.

  Over clover wet with dew,
  Whence the sky-lark, startled, flew,
  Through brown fallows, where the hare
  Leapt up from its subtle lair,
  Past the mill-stream and the reeds
  Where the stately heron feeds,
  By the warrens sunny wall,
  Where the dry leaves shake and fall,
  By the halls ancestral trees,
  Bent and writhing in the breeze,
  Rode we all with one intent,
  Gaily to the Tournament.

  Golden sparkles, flashing gem,
  Lit the robes of each of them,
  Cloak of velvet, robe of silk,
  Mantle snowy-white as milk,
  Rings upon our bridle-hand,
  Jewels on our belt and band,
  Bells upon our golden reins,
  Tinkling spurs and shining chains--
  In such merry mob we went
  Riding to the Tournament.

  Laughing voices, scraps of song,
  Lusty music loud and strong,
  Rustling of the banners blowing,
  Whispers as of rivers flowing.
  Whistle of the hawks we bore
  As they rise and as they soar,
  Now and then a clash of drums
  As the rabble louder hums,
  Now and then a burst of horns
  Sounding over brooks and bourns,
  As in merry guise we went
  Riding to the Tournament.

  There were abbots fat and sleek,
  Nuns in couples, pale and meek,
  Jugglers tossing cups and knives,
  Yeomen with their buxom wives,
  Pages playing with the curls
  Of the rosy village girls,
  Grizzly knights with faces scarred,
  Staring through their vizors barred,
  Huntsmen cheering with a shout
  At the wild stag breaking out,
  Harper, stately as a king,
  Touching now and then a string,
  As our revel laughing went
  To the solemn Tournament.

  Charger with the massy chest,
  Foam-spots flecking mane and breast,
  Pacing stately, pawing ground,
  Fretting for the trumpets sound,
  White and sorrel, roan and bay,
  Dappled, spotted, black, and grey,
  Palfreys snowy as the dawn,
  Ponies sallow as the fawn,
  All together neighing went
  Trampling to the Tournament.

  Long hair scattered in the wind,
  Curls that flew a yard behind,
  Flags that struggled like a bird
  Chained and restive--not a word
  But half buried in a laugh;
  And the lances gilded staff
  Shaking when the bearer shook
  At the jesters merry look,
  As he grins upon his mule,
  Like an urchin leaving school,
  Shaking bauble, tossing bells,
  At the merry jest he tells,--
  So in happy mood we went,
  Laughing to the Tournament.

  What a bustle at the inn,
  What a stir, without--within;
  Filling flagons, brimming bowls
  For a hundred thirsty souls;
  Froth in snow-flakes flowing down,
  From the pitcher big and brown,
  While the tankards brim and bubble
  With the balm for human trouble;
  How the maiden coyly sips,
  How the yeoman wipes his lips,
  How the old knight drains the cup
  Slowly and with calmness up,
  And the abbot, with a prayer,
  Fills the silver goblet rare,
  Praying to the saints for strength
  As he holds it at arms length;
  How the jester spins the bowl
  On his thumb, then quaffs the whole;
  How the pompous steward bends
  And bows to half-a-dozen friends,
  As in a thirsty mood we went
  Duly to the Tournament.

  Then again the country over
  Through the stubble and the clover,
  By the crystal-dropping springs,
  Where the road dust clogs and clings
  To the pearl-leaf of the rose,
  Where the tawdry nightshade blows,
  And the bramble twines its chains
  Through the sunny village lanes,
  Where the thistle sheds its seed,
  And the goldfinch loves to feed,
  By the milestone green with moss,
  By the broken wayside cross,
  In a merry band we went
  Shouting to the Tournament.

  Pilgrims with their hood and cowl,
  Pursy burghers cheek by jowl,
  Archers with their peacocks wing
  Fitting to the waxen string,
  Pedlars with their pack and bags,
  Beggars with their coloured rags,
  Silent monks, whose stony eyes
  Rest in trance upon the skies,
  Children sleeping at the breast,
  Merchants from the distant West,
  All in gay confusion went
  To the royal Tournament.

  Players with the painted face
  And a drunken mans grimace,
  Grooms who praise their raw-boned steeds,
  Old wives telling maple beads,--
  Blackbirds from the hedges broke,
  Black crows from the beeches croak,
  Glossy swallows in dismay
  From the mill-stream fled away,
  The angry swan, with ruffled breast,
  Frowned upon her osier nest,
  The wren hopped restless on the brake,
  The otter made the sedges shake,
  The butterfly before our rout
  Flew like a blossom blown about,
  The coloured leaves, a globe of life,
  Spun round and scattered as in strife,
  Sweeping down the narrow lane
  Like the slant shower of the rain,
  The lark in terror, from the sod,
  Flew up and straight appealed to God,
  As a noisy band we went
  Trotting to the Tournament.

  But when we saw the holy town,
  With its river and its down,
  Then the drums began to beat
  And the flutes piped mellow sweet;
  Then the deep and full bassoon
  Murmured like a wood in June,
  And the fifes, so sharp and bleak,
  All at once began to speak.
  Hear the trumpets clear and loud,
  Full-tongued, eloquent and proud,
  And the dulcimer that ranges
  Through such wild and plaintive changes;
  Merry sounds the jesters shawm[56],
  To our gladness giving form;
  And the shepherds chalumeau[57],
  Rich and soft and sad and low;
  Hark! the bagpipes squeak and groan--
  Every herdsman has his own;
  So in measured step we went
  Pacing to the Tournament.

  All at once the chimes break out,
  Then we hear the townsmen shout,
  And the morris-dancers bells
  Tinkling in the grassy dells;
  The bell thunder from the tower
  Adds its sound of doom and power,
  As the cannons loud salute
  For a moment made us mute;
  Then again the laugh and joke
  On the startled silence broke;--
  Thus in merry mood we went
  Laughing to the Tournament.

                   G. W. THORNBURY.

[56] _shawm_: reed pipe.

[57] _chalumeau_: reed pipe.

VARIOUS

A RED, RED ROSE

  O, my love is like a red, red rose,
    Thats newly sprung in June:
  O, my love is like the melody
    Thats sweetly playd in tune.

  As fair art thou, my bonnie lass,
    So deep in love am I,
  And I will love thee still, my dear,
    Till all the seas gang[58] dry.

  Till all the seas gang dry, my dear,
    And the rocks melt wi the sun!
  And I will love thee still, my dear,
    While the sands o life shall run.

  And fare thee well, my only love,
    And fare thee well a while!
  And I will come again, my love,
    Tho it were ten thousand mile!

                      ROBERT BURNS.

[58] _gang_: go.

BLOW, BUGLE, BLOW

    The splendour falls on castle walls
      And snowy summits old in story:
    The long light shakes across the lakes,
      And the wild cataract leaps in glory.
  Blow, bugle, blow, set the wild echoes flying,
  Blow, bugle; answer, echoes, dying, dying, dying.

    O hark, O hear! how thin and clear,
      And thinner, clearer, farther going!
      The horns of Elfland faintly blowing!
  Blow, let us hear the purple glens replying:
  Blow, bugle; answer, echoes, dying, dying, dying.

    O love, they die in yon rich sky,
      They faint on hill or field or river:
    Our echoes roll from soul to soul,
        And grow for ever and for ever.
  Blow, bugle, blow, set the wild echoes flying,
  And answer, echoes, answer, dying, dying, dying.

             ALFRED, LORD TENNYSON.

[59] _scar_: a crag, a precipice.

WEST AND EAST

_Rome is chiefly known to young readers through the medium of
Macaulays spirited Lays, which, however, are only a re-telling,
in English ballad form, of some of the legends which survived into
historical times concerning the infant city, about which nothing
certain is known. They give no idea of the Rome of history, the
world-power, or of the brooding immensity of her influence through
centuries. This and the following poem illustrate, to some slight
extent, the later Rome._

  In his cool hall, with haggard eyes,
    The Roman noble lay;
  He drove abroad, in furious guise,
    Along the Appian way.

  He made a feast, drank fierce and fast,
    And crownd his hair with flowers--
  No easier nor no quicker passd
    The impracticable hours.

  The brooding East with awe beheld
    Her impious younger world.
  The Roman tempest swelld and swelld,
    And on her head was hurled.

  The East bowd low before the blast
    In patient, deep disdain;
  She let the legions thunder past,
    And plunged in thought again.

                    MATTHEW ARNOLD.

GENSERIC

  Genseric, King of the Vandals, who, having laid waste seven lands,
  From Tripolis far as Tangier, from the sea to the great desert sands,
  Was lord of the Moor and the African,--thirsting anon for new
    slaughter,
  Saild out of Carthage, and saild oer the Mediterranean water;
  Plunderd Palermo, seizd Sicily, sackd the Lucanian coast,
  And paused, and said, laughing, Where next?
          Then there came to the Vandal a Ghost
  From the Shadowy Land that lies hid and unknown in the Darkness Below.
  And answered, To Rome!
          Said the King to the Ghost, And whose envoy art thou?
  Whence comst thou? and name me his name that hath sent thee: and say
    what is thine.
  From far: and His name that hath sent me is God, the Ghost answered,
    and mine
  Was Hannibal once, ere thou wast: and the name that I now have is
    Fate.
  But arise, and be swift, and return. For God waits, and the moment is
    late.
  And, I go, said the Vandal. And went. When at last to the gates he
    was come,
  Loud he knockd with his fierce iron fist. And full drowsily answerd
    him Rome.
  Who is it that knocketh so loud? Get thee hence. Let me be. For tis
    late.
  Thou art wanted, cried Genseric. Open! His name that hath sent me
    is Fate,
  And mine, who knock late, Retribution.
          Rome gave him her glorious things;
  The keys she had conquerd from kingdoms: the crowns she had wrested
    from kings:
  And Genseric bore them away into Carthage, avenged thus on Rome,
  And paused, and said, laughing, Where next?
          And again the Ghost answerd him, Home!
  For now God doth need thee no longer.
          Where leadest thou me by the hand?
  Cried the King to the Ghost. And the Ghost answerd, Into the Shadowy
    Land.

                     OWEN MEREDITH.

KUBLA KHAN

    In Xanadu did Kubla Khan
      A stately pleasure-dome decree:
    Where Alph, the sacred river, ran
    Through caverns measureless to man
      Down to a sunless sea.
    So twice five miles of fertile ground
    With walls and towers were girdled round:
  And there were gardens bright with sinuous rills
  Where blossomd many an incense-bearing tree;
  And here were forests ancient as the hills,
  Enfolding sunny spots of greenery.
  But O, that deep romantic chasm which slanted
  Down the green hill athwart a cedarn cover!
  A savage place! as holy and enchanted
  As eer beneath a waning moon was haunted
  By woman wailing for her demon-lover!
  And from this chasm, with ceaseless turmoil seething,
  As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing,
  A mighty fountain momently was forced;
  Amid whose swift half-intermitted burst
  Huge fragments vaulted like rebounding hail,
  Or chaffy grain beneath the threshers flail:
  And mid these dancing rocks at once and ever
  It flung up momently the sacred river.
  Five miles meandering with a mazy motion
  Through wood and dale the sacred river ran,
  Then reached the caverns measureless to man,
  And sank in tumult to a lifeless ocean:
  And mid this tumult Kubla heard from far
  Ancestral voices prophesying war!
    The shadow of the dome of pleasure
      Floated midway on the waves;
    Where was heard the mingled measure
      From the fountain and the caves.
  It was a miracle of rare device,
  A sunny pleasure-dome with caves of ice!

    A damsel with a dulcimer
      In a vision once I saw:
    It was an Abyssinian maid,
      And on her dulcimer she playd,
    Singing of Mount Abora.
    Could I revive within me
    Her symphony and song,
  To such a deep delight twould win me
  That with music loud and long,
  I would build that dome in air,
  That sunny dome! those caves of ice!
  And all who heard should see them there,
  And all should cry, Beware! Beware!
  His flashing eyes, his floating hair!
  Weave a circle round him thrice,
    And close your eyes with holy dread,
    For he on honey-dew hath fed,
  And drunk the milk of Paradise.

           SAMUEL TAYLOR COLERIDGE.

SOMETHING TO REMEMBER

  Ah, did you once see Shelley plain,
    And did he stop and speak to you,
  And did you speak to him again?
    How strange it seems, and new!

  But you were living before that.
    And also you are living after,
  And the memory I started at--
    My starting moves your laughter!

  I crossed a moor, with a name of its own
    And a certain use in the world, no doubt,
  Yet a hands-breadth of it shines alone
    Mid the blank miles round about:

  For there I picked up on the heather
    And there I put inside my breast
  A moulted feather, an eagle-feather!
    Well, I forget the rest.

                   ROBERT BROWNING.

RING OUT, WILD BELLS

  Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky,
      The flying cloud, the frosty light:
      The year is dying in the night;
  Ring out wild bells, and let him die.

  Ring out the old, ring in the new,
      Ring, happy bells, across the snow:
      The year is going, let him go;
  Ring out the false, ring in the true.

  Ring out the grief that saps the mind,
      For those that here we see no more;
      Ring out the feud of rich and poor,
  Ring in redress to all mankind.

  Ring out a slowly dying cause,
      And ancient forms of party strife;
      Ring in the nobler modes of life,
  With sweeter manners, purer laws.

  Ring out the want, the care, the sin,
      The faithless coldness of the times;
      Ring out, ring out my mournful rhymes,
  But ring the fuller minstrel in.

  Ring out false pride in place and blood,
      The civic slander and the spite;
      Ring in the love of truth and right,
  Ring in the common love of good.

  Ring out old shapes of foul disease;
      Ring out the narrowing lust of gold;
      Ring out the thousand wars of old,
  Ring in the thousand years of peace.

  Ring in the valiant man and free,
      The larger heart, the kindlier hand;
      Ring out the darkness of the land,
  Ring in the Christ that is to be.

             ALFRED, LORD TENNYSON.

INDEX OF AUTHORS

                                           PAGE

INDEX OF FIRST LINES

                                                           PAGE

  Genseric, King of the Vandals, who, having laid waste

  Oh England is a pleasant place for them thats rich and

CAMBRIDGE: PRINTED BY JOHN CLAY, M.A. AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS.

Books on English Language and Literature published by the Cambridge
University Press

ENGLISH LANGUAGE

  =English Grammar:= Descriptive and Historical. By T. G. TUCKER,
    Litt.D., and R. S. WALLACE, M.A. Crown 8vo. 3_s._ net.

  =A Junior Graphic Grammar.= By E. A. A. VARNISH and J. H. HANLY.
    Crown 8vo. With a table. 2s. net.

  =The Elements of English Grammar.= With a Chapter on
    Essay-writing. By A. S. WEST, M.A. Extra fcap. 8vo. 3_s._ net.

  =A Chapter on Essay-writing=, separately. 6_d._ net.

  =An English Grammar for Beginners.= By A. S. WEST, M.A. Extra
    fcap. 8vo. 150th to 175th Thousand. 1_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =The Revised English Grammar.= A new edition of =The Elements
    of English Grammar=, based upon the recommendations of the
    Committee on Grammatical Terminology. By A. S. WEST, M.A. Extra
    fcap. 8vo. 3_s._ net.

  =The Revised English Grammar for Beginners.= A new edition of
    =English Grammar for Beginners=. By A. S. WEST, M.A. Extra
    fcap. 8vo. 1_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =Key to the Questions contained in Wests= _Revised English
    Grammar and Revised English Grammar for Beginners_. By A. S.
    WEST, M.A. Extra fcap. 8vo. 4_s._ net. Suitable for use with
    both the original and revised editions.

  =A Handbook of English for Junior and Intermediate= Classes. By
    D. B. NICOLSON, M.A. Crown 8vo. 1_s._ 9_d._ net.

  =English Composition: with Chapters on Prcis= Writing, Prosody,
    and Style. By W. MURISON, M.A. Crown 8vo. 5_s._ net. Or in two
    parts, 3_s._ net each.

  =Key to the Exercises in= _English Composition_. By W. MURISON,
    M.A. Crown 8vo. 5_s._ net.

  =Prcis-Writing.= By W. MURISON. Crown 8vo. In three parts. Part
    I, 3_s._ net. Part II, 3_s._ 6d. net. Part III, 4_s._ net.

  =A Handbook of Prcis-Writing.= With graduated exercises. By E.
    D. EVANS, M.A. Crown 8vo. 2_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =An Elementary Old English Grammar (Early= West-Saxon). By A. J.
    WYATT, M.A. Crown 8vo. 5_s._ net.

  =An Elementary Old English Reader (Early West-Saxon).= By the
    same author. Crown 8vo. 5_s._ net.

  =A Concise Anglo-Saxon Dictionary= for the use of Students. By
    JOHN R. CLARK HALL. Second Edition. Revised and enlarged. Demy
    8vo. 15_s._ net.

  =The Pronunciation of English. Phonetics and Phonetic
    Transcriptions.= By DANIEL JONES, M.A. Crown 8vo. 3_s._ net.
    (Cambridge Primers of Pronunciation.) Wall-charts for class use:

    1. The Organs of Speech. On card 2_s._ 6_d._ net, on paper
       2_s._ net. Mounted on canvas, varnished, with rollers,
       3_s._ 6_d._ net; mounted on canvas, folded, 4_s._ 6_d._
       net.

    2. English Speech Sounds. On card 2_s._ 6_d._ net, on paper
       2_s._ net. Mounted on canvas, varnished, with rollers,
       3_s._ 6_d._ net; mounted on canvas, folded, 4_s._ 6_d._
       net.

  =The Pronunciation of English in Scotland.= By WILLIAM GRANT,
    M.A. Crown 8vo. 4_s._ net. (Cambridge Primers of Pronunciation.)

  =Outlines of the History of the English Language.= By Professor
    T. N. TOLLER, M.A. Crown 8vo. 4_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Chapters on English Metre.= By JOSEPH B. MAYOR, M.A. Second
    Edition. Demy 8vo. 7_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =A Handbook of Modern English Metre.= By the same author. Extra
    fcap. 8vo. 2_s._ 6_d._ net.

ENGLISH LITERATURE

  =Beowulf, with the Finnsburg Fragment.= Edited by A. J. WYATT.
    New edition, revised, with introduction and notes, by R. W.
    CHAMBERS. Demy 8vo. With 2 facsimiles of MSS. 9_s._ net.

  =Beowulf.= A metrical translation into Modern English. By JOHN R.
    CLARK HALL. Crown 8vo. 2_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Spindrift. Salt from the Ocean of English Prose.= Edited by
    GEOFFREY CALLENDER, M.A. Crown 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Stories from Chaucer. Retold from the Canterbury Tales.= With
    Introduction and Notes by MARGARET C. MACAULAY. Crown 8vo. With
    frontispiece and 28 illustrations from old MSS. 1_s._ 9_d._
    net. Without Introduction and Notes. 1_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =The Elder Brother.= A Comedy by JOHN FLETCHER. First printed in
    1637, now reprinted with slight alterations and abridgement
    for use on occasions of entertainment, especially in Schools
    illustrations. 3_s._ net.

  =Lyrical Forms in English.= Edited with Introduction and Notes by
    NORMAN HEPPLE, M. Litt. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 2_s._ 6_d._
    net.

  =Principles and Method in the Study of English Literature.= By W.
    MACPHERSON, M.A. Crown 8vo. 2_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Milton. Paradise Lost.= Edited by A. W. VERITY, M.A. Crown 8vo.
    8_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Milton.= The Poetical Works, edited with Critical Notes by
    WILLIAM ALDIS WRIGHT, M.A., Litt.D. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 6_s._
    net. India paper, limp lamb-skin, 8_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =On the Art of Writing.= Lectures delivered in the University of
    Cambridge 1913-1914. By Sir ARTHUR QUILLER-COUCH, M.A. Demy
    8vo. 7_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Tennyson.= =In Memoriam.= Edited with a Commentary by ARTHUR W.
    ROBINSON, B.D. Crown 8vo. 3_s._ net.

  =The Literature of the Victorian Era.= By Professor HUGH WALKER,
    LL.D. Crown 8vo. 10_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Outlines of Victorian Literature.= By HUGH WALKER, LL.D., and
    Mrs HUGH WALKER. Demy 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =A Book of Victorian Poetry and Prose.= Compiled by Mrs HUGH
    WALKER. Crown 8vo. 3_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Jonathan Swift.= The Leslie Stephen Lecture delivered before the
    University of Cambridge on 26 May, 1917. By CHARLES WHIBLEY,
    M.A. Crown 8vo. 1_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =A Primer of English Literature.= By W. T. YOUNG, M.A. Small
    crown 8vo. Cloth, gilt lettering. 2_s._ 3_d._ net. School
    edition. Limp cloth. 1_s._ 3_d._ net.

CAMBRIDGE ANTHOLOGIES

  =Life in Shakespeares England.= A Book of Elizabethan Prose
    compiled by J. D. WILSON, M.A. Illustrated. 4_s._ net.

  =An Anthology of the Poetry of the Age of Shakespeare.= Chosen by
    W. T. YOUNG, M.A. Crown 8vo. 3_s._ net.

ENGLISH ROMANTIC POETS

  =Selections from the Poems of John Keats.= Edited by A. HAMILTON
    THOMPSON, M.A., F.S.A. Crown 8vo. 2_s._ net.

  =Selections from the Poems of Percy Bysshe= Shelley. Edited by A.
    H. THOMPSON. Crown 8vo. 2_s._ net.

  =Selections from the Poems of Samuel Taylor= Coleridge. Edited by
    A. H. THOMPSON. Crown 8vo. 2_s._ net.

PITT PRESS SERIES, ETC.

  =Bacons Essays.= Edited by A. S. WEST, M.A. 3_s._ net.

  =Bacons History of the Reign of King Henry VII.= Edited by the
    Rev. J. R. LUMBY, D.D. 3_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Bacon.= =New Atlantis.= Edited by G. C. MOORE SMITH, M.A. 2_s._
    net.

  =Ballads and Poems Illustrating English History.= Edited by FRANK
    SIDGWICK. 2_s._ net.
      Without introduction and notes. 1_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Old Ballads.= Edited by FRANK SIDGWICK. 2_s._ net.

  =Robert Browning.= A Selection of Poems (1835-1864).= Edited by
    W. T. YOUNG, M.A. 3_s._ net.

  =Burke.= =Reflections on the French Revolution.= Edited by W.
    ALISON PHILLIPS, M.A., and CATHERINE BEATRICE PHILLIPS. 4_s._
    6_d._ net.

  =Burke.= =Speeches on American Taxation and Conciliation with
    America.= Edited by A. D. INNES, M.A. 3_s._ 6_d._ net. =Speech
    on Conciliation with America=, separately. 2_s._ net.

  =Burke.= =Thoughts on the Cause of the Present= Discontents.
    Edited by W. MURISON, M.A. 3_s._ net.

  =Byron.= =Childe Harolds Pilgrimage.= Edited by A. H. THOMPSON,
    M.A. 3_s._ net.

  =Chaucer.= =The Prologue and The Knights Tale.= Edited by M.
    BENTINCK SMITH, M.A. 3_s._ net.

  =Chaucer.= =The Clerkes Tale and The Squieres= Tale. Edited by L.
    WINSTANLEY, M.A. 3_s._ net.

  =Chaucer.= =The Nonn Prestes Tale.= Edited by L. WINSTANLEY,
    M.A. 2_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =Cowleys Prose Works.= Edited by J. R. LUMBY. 4_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =De Foe.= =Robinson Crusoe.= Part I. Edited by J. HOWARD B.
    MASTERMAN, M.A. 2_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Earle.= =Microcosmography.= Edited by A. S. WEST, M.A. 3_s._
    6_d._ net.

  =Goldsmith.= =The Traveller and the Deserted Village.= Edited by
    W. MURISON, M.A. 1_s._ 9_d._ net.

  =Gray.= =English Poems.= Edited by D. C. TOVEY, M.A. 4_s._ 6_d._
    net.

    _Extracts from the above_
      =Ode on the Spring and the Bard.= 1_s._ net.
      =Ode on the Spring and Elegy in a Country Churchyard.=
        1_s._ net.

  =Grays English Poems.= Edited by R. F. CHARLES, M.A. 2_s._ 3_d._
    net.

  =Kingsley.= =The Heroes, or Greek Fairy Tales for my Children.=
    Edited with Notes, Illustrations from Greek Vases, and Two
    Maps, by ERNEST GARDNER, M.A. 1_s._ 9_d._ net. Without
    introduction and notes. 1_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =Lambs Essays of Elia and Last Essays of Elia.= Edited by A. H.
    THOMPSON, M.A. 3_s._ net each.

  =Lamb, Charles and Mary=. A Selection of Tales from Shakespeare.
    With Introduction and Notes, and an Appendix of Extracts from
    Shakespeare, by J. H. FLATHER, M.A. 1_s._ 9_d._ net.

  =A second selection.= By the same editor, 1_s._ 9_d._ net.

  =Macaulay.= =The Lays of Ancient Rome, and other Poems.= Edited
    by J. H. FLATHER, M.A. 1_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Macaulay.= =John Milton.= Edited, with Introduction and Notes,
    by J. H. FLATHER, M.A. 1_s._ 6d. net.

  =Macaulay.= =History of England, Chapters I-III.= Edited by W.
    F. REDDAWAY, M.A. 2_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Macaulay.= =Lord Clive.= Edited by A. D. INNES, M.A. 2_s._ net.

    By the same editor
      =Warren Hastings.= 2_s._ net.
      =Two Essays on William Pitt, Earl of Chatham.= 3s. net.
      =Essay on The Pilgrims Progress=, 1_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Nineteenth Century Essays.= Edited with Introduction and Notes
    by GEORGE SAMPSON. 2_s._ 3_d._ net.

THE CAMBRIDGE MILTON FOR SCHOOLS With Introduction, Notes and
Glossaries, by A. W. VERITY, M.A.

  =Arcades.= 2_s._ net. =Samson Agonistes.= 3_s._ net.

  =Ode on the Morning of Christs Nativity=, =LAllegro=, =Il
    Penseroso=, and =Lycidas.= 3_s._ net. =Sonnets.= 2_s._ net.

  =Comus and Lycidas.= 2_s._ 6_d._ net. =Comus=, separately, 1_s._
    6_d._ net.

  =Paradise Lost.= In 6 volumes, each containing 2 books, 2_s._
    3_d._ net per volume. (For _Paradise Lost_ in one volume see p.
    2)

       *       *       *       *       *

    =Mores Utopia.= Edited by J. R. LUMBY, D.D. 2_s._ 3_d._ net.

    =Mores History of King Richard III.= Edited by J. R. LUMBY,
    D.D. 4_s._ net.

    =Popes Essay on Criticism.= Edited by A. S. WEST, M.A. 2_s._
    6_d._ net.

    =Popes Essay on Man.= Edited by A. H. THOMPSON, M.A. 2_s._
    6_d._ net.

SCHOOL EDITIONS OF SCOTTS WORKS

Each volume contains Introduction, Notes and Glossary

  =Marmion.= Edited by J. H. B. MASTERMAN, M.A. 3_s._ net.

  =The Lady of the Lake.= Same editor. 3_s._ net.

  =The Lord of the Isles.= Edited by J. H. FLATHER, M.A. 2_s._
    3_d._ net.

  =The Lay of the Last Minstrel.= Same editor. 2_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =A Legend of Montrose.= Edited by H. F. M. SIMPSON, M.A. 2_s._
    3d. net.

  =Old Mortality.= Edited by J. A. NICKLIN. 2_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =Kenilworth.= Edited by J. H. FLATHER, M.A. 2_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =Quentin Durward.= Edited by W. MURISON, M.A. 2_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =The Talisman.= Edited by A. S. GAYE, B.A. 2_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =Woodstock.= Same editor. 2_s._ 3_d._ net.

  =The Pitt Press Shakespeare.= By A. W. VERITY, M.A. With
    Introduction, Notes, and Glossary. Price 1_s._ 9_d._ net each.
    =A Midsummer-Nights Dream=
    =The Merchant of Venice=
    =As You Like It=
    =Twelfth Night=
    =King Richard II=
    =King Henry V=
    =Coriolanus=
    =Julius Caesar=
    =King Lear=
    =Macbeth=
    =Hamlet=
    =The Tempest=

  =The Granta Shakespeare.= By J. H. LOBBAN, M.A. With short Notes
    and brief Glossary. Price 1_s._ 3_d._ net each.
    =Twelfth Night=
    =The Winters Tale=
    =The Merchant of Venice=
    =Julius Caesar=
    =A Midsummer-Nights Dream=
    =Cymbeline=
    =King Henry V=
    =King Henry IV (Part I)=
    =King Henry IV (Part II)=
    =Macbeth=
    =The Tempest=
    =Much Ado about Nothing=
    =Coriolanus=
    =Antony and Cleopatra=

  =The Students Shakespeare.= Edited by A. W. VERITY, M.A. With
    Introductions, Notes, Glossaries, etc. 3_s._ net each.
    =Coriolanus.=
    =Hamlet.=
    =Macbeth.=

         *       *       *       *       *

  =Sidney.= =An Apologie for Poetrie.= Edited by E. S. SHUCKBURGH,
    Litt.D. 3_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Spenser.= =The Fowre Hymnes.= Edited by LILIAN WINSTANLEY, M.A.
    2_s._ 6_d._ net.

  =Spenser.= =The Faerie Queene, Books I and II.= Edited by L.
    WINSTANLEY. 3_s._ net each.

  =Tennyson.= =Fifty Poems, 1830-1864.= Edited by J. H. LOBBAN,
    M.A. 3_s._ net.

  =Poems by William Wordsworth.= Selected and annotated by Miss
    CLARA L. THOMSON. 1_s._ 9_d._ net.

         *       *       *       *       *

  =The Cambridge Book of Poetry for Children.= Edited by KENNETH
    GRAHAME. Crown 8vo. In two parts. 1_s._ net each. In one
    volume, cloth extra. 3_s._ net.

  =A Book of Verse for Children.= Compiled by ALYS RODGERS, L.L.A.
    (Hons.). Crown 8vo. Complete, cloth gilt, 3_s._ net; cloth
    back, 2_s._ _6d._ net. Parts I-III separately, limp cloth,
    1_s._ net.

  =English Patriotic Poetry.= Selected by L. GODWIN SALT, M.A.
    1_s._ 9_d._ net. Text only, without introduction and notes,
    9_d._ net.

  =A Book of English Poetry for the Young.= Arranged for
    Preparatory and Elementary Schools by W. H. WOODWARD. 1_s._ net.

  =A Second Book of English Poetry for the Young.= Arranged for
    Secondary and High Schools by W. H. WOODWARD. 1_s._ net.

Transcribers Note:

Spelling, word usage an punctuation have been retained as in the
original publication, except as follows:

  PART I
      Who alway by Lars Porsena _changed to_
      Who always by Lars Porsena

      So fierce a thrust he sped _changed to_
      So fierce a thrust he sped,

  PART II
      more lovely by far. _changed to_
      more lovely by far,